WELCOME TO THE
SEPTEMBER 19TH TWENTY THREE
REGULAR MEETING OF THE ANIBA
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
DETAILED INFORMATION MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED MYCELIA.
WILL YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL?
I WILL.
THANK YOU SHORTLY HERE THE VICE
CHAIR HERE SECRETARY HERE
COMMISSIONER MILT'S HERE
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
HERE.
COMMISSIONER DISH HERE.
COMMISSIONER SOLVAY HERE.
COMMISSIONER CLARKE HERE AND
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE HERE.
WE ALL MEMBERS ARE PRESENT.
WE HAVE A QUORUM.
THANK YOU.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER WHITECHURCH
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE MOTION
PCI AND HE OPPOSED THE MOTION
CARRIES NOW I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES OF THE
SEPTEMBER 6TH MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER M. SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY I AM
OPPOSED.
THE MOTION CARRIES WE'RE GOING
TO MOVE ON TO REPORTS THE CITY
ADMINISTRATION THAT'S UP A
REPORT TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND WRITTEN
COMMUNICATION COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH.
DO YOU HAVE ANY REPORT?
YES.
LAST NIGHT AT THE COUNCIL
MEETING THE REZONING OF THE
RESIDENTIAL TWO RESIDENTIAL
BUILDINGS ON SALEEN ROAD WAS
APPROVED FROM RESIDENTIAL TO
OFFICE AND I DON'T REMEMBER
ANYTHING THAT SHOULD INTEREST
YOU BUT I HAVE I'M FORGETTING
SOMETHING.
THANK YOU, MISS CLEO.
DO YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO REPORT?
I DO HAVE A FEW INFORMATIONAL
THINGS FROM THE PLANNING
MANAGER THAT I AM CALLING UP
RIGHT NOW.
YEAH, FAMILY PLANNING MANAGER
BRETTLER THE WEBSITE FOR THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN WORK IS UP
AND RUNNING.
IT HAS A SHORTCODE OF PLAN A
TUBE GOV DOT ORG SLASH PLAN FOR
THE STEERING COMMITTEE.
APPLICATIONS ARE ALSO LIVE AND
ARE BEING COLLECTED FOR ANYONE
WHO'D LIKE TO APPLY.
THERE WAS A PRESS RELEASE ON
MONDAY ANNOUNCING THIS AND THE
APPLICATIONS WILL BE OPEN UNTIL
OCTOBER 6TH.
EVERYONE IS INVITED TO APPLY.
THERE IS ALSO A LISTSERV OR AN
UPDATE LIST THAT YOU CAN JOIN.
YOU CAN SIGN SIGN UP FOR THAT
AT PLAN TO GUARD AGAINST COMP
PLAN UPDATES COMP PLAN UPDATE
YES.
PLANNING STAFF WILL BE AT THE
GREEN FAIR THIS FRIDAY FROM
FIVE TO EIGHT.
THE GREEN FAIR IS I BELIEVE ON
MAIN STREET DOWNTOWN AND
THERE'LL BE A BOOTH THERE.
YOU CAN STOP BY AND LEARN ABOUT
THE COMP PLAN, MAKE SOME
COMMENTS AND FINALLY OUR
CONSULTANT TEAM WILL BE JOINING
THE PLANNING COMMISSION'S
WORKING SESSION ON OCTOBER 11TH
AND THOSE ARE IT FOR PLANNING
MANAGER TIDBITS.
THANK YOU.
DO OTHER COMMISSIONER OFFICERS
ARE COMMITTEE LIAISON HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT?
COMMISSIONER SALVAJE SOUTHERN
INFORMAL REPORT ON HOUSE PARTY
SINCE I THINK ALL OF YOU WERE
AWARE OF IT BUT LAST WEEK WE
HAD ELEVEN EVENTS TALKING ABOUT
HOUSING TWO HUNDRED TWENTY ONE
UNIQUE PARTICIPANTS.
FORTY SEVEN INDIVIDUALS FROM
OUR COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTED TO
THE COMMUNICATIONS AND THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN'S
STUDENTS COLLECTED A LOT
OF INFORMATION ON WEDNESDAY AND
SATURDAY SPECIFICALLY TO
PREVENT INTERFACE.
SO WE'RE LOOKING FORWARD TO
CONSOLIDATING AND INCLUDING
THAT IN THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
.
THANK YOU.
THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS ARE INCLUDED IN
TODAY'S PACKET'S.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO ITEM NUMBER
SIX PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT AN ISSUE THAT IS
NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING
ON THIS AGENDA.
THE FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
TO PRESENT TO THE COMMISSION
AND THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS SO
TO SPEAK DURING THIS PUBLIC
HEARING REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS
NINE STAR OF LISTENING BY PHONE
OR USE A HAND FEATURE A VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND INTERMEETING
EIGHTY NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX.
DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS
.
WE DO HAVE ONE CALLER AND THEIR
HAND IS RAISED COLOR LET WITH
THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING FOUR TO
NINE YOU ARE NOW OPEN TO TALK
AND CAN SPEAK TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES
COLOR ENDING FOUR TO NINE.
YOU'LL HAVE TO MUTE YOURSELF BY
PRESSING STAR NINE AND THEN
YOU'RE FREE TO SPEAK TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
UM THE CALLER HAS LOWERED THEIR
HAND.
OK OK ONE MORE TIME BUT THEY
HAVE LOWERED THEIR HAND BUT OK
HANDS BACK
CALLER ENDING FOUR
TO NINE YOU CAN LIMIT YOURSELF
BY PRESSING DOWN SIX ACROSS ALL
THE STARS.
YEAH YEAH OK YOU GOT IT RIGHT.
YES WE CAN THANK YOU I THREE
THREE
FIVE DOLLARS AN HOUR.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER FOR YOUR
PUBLIC SERVICE WORK ON THE
COMMISSION.
I AM IN FAVOR GOING REQUIRE YOU
TO UP IN AN HOUR ALL I TO LIVE
IN AN OVER AN HOUR AND PART
OF THE REASON IS BECAUSE THERE
IS TREMENDOUS DEMAND HERE BUT I
HAD NEVER BEEN VERY FORWARD
THINKING CULTURE ENVIRONMENT
AND TRANSITIONING TO ALL
OF THIS BIG PICTURE.
WE THE PEOPLE THAT ARE TO LEAD
THE WAY DO AND GOING ALL PART
OF OUR PEOPLE LEADING THE WAY
IT'S OUR CAREERS.
THANK YOU.
AND PROCEDURALLY SPEAKING I'M
JUST GOING TO BACK UP REAL
QUICK SIMPLY BECAUSE WE
NORMALLY DO PEOPLE WHO ARE
PRESENT AND THEN CALL.
SO I DO APOLOGIZE FOR THAT
BEING SO FOR SO LET ME JUST
BACK UP AND ASK IS THERE ANYONE
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME ON A MATTER
THAT IS NOT ON THE AGENDA
SEEING NO ONE?
WE WILL GO BACK TO ADDRESSING
THE COMMISSION REMOTELY.
IS THERE ANY WOULD YOU LIKE TO
SPEAK OK?
IS THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY?
IT'S WE DO HAVE ONE ADDITIONAL
COLOR, ALEX LOWE YOU CAN MUTE
YOURSELF AND ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THREE
MINUTES ON MUTE BY PRESSING
STARLINE SIX STAR SIX STAR
STUDDED.
FORTUNATELY I SO JUST HAVE TO
PRESS THE MUTE.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOLKS.
I REALLY DO LIKE THE IDEA
OF GETTING MORE ELECTRIC AND
LESS GAS IN THE CITY BUT I
THINK THAT USING THAT AS A AS A
WAY TO HAVE HER INTERMEDIATE
DEVELOPMENT IS PROBABLY MORE
HARMFUL THAN THAT.
IT IS HELPFUL ESPECIALLY WHEN
WE HAVE TO CONSIDER THINGS LIKE
HOW LONG HOW FAR PEOPLE ARE
GOING TO BE COMMUTING ETC. BUT
RATHER I WOULD LOVE TO SEE THE
CITY USE SOMETHING LIKE THEY'RE
STARTING TO PHASE OUT GAS
STOVES IN ALL RESIDENCE, ALL
RESIDENCES.
IT'S THAT IS REALLY CLEAR AND
REALLY SOUND SCIENCE SHOWING
HOW BAD IT IS FOR INDOOR AIR
QUALITY ETC. SO THIS WOULD THAT
THIS WOULD HELP US TO TO BOTH
IMPROVE OUR HEALTH AND THE
ENVIRONMENT ANYTHING ALSO I
REALLY I REALLY LIKE TO SEE
THAT THE REMOVAL OF THE FAA IN
D ONE AND TWO ON THE TABLE I
JUST WISH THAT WE'D ACCEPT THAT
TOLSON'S WOULD BE FAR BETTER IN
MY OPINION IF WE JUST HAD NO
FAA OR LIMITS THROUGHOUT THE
CITY AND STARTED AT SO MANY
THINGS BY A NUMBER OF FLOORS
AND HEIGHT.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER CALLERS MYSTERIUM UM
THANK YOU.
WE DO NOT HAVE THAT WE WILL
ANY OTHER CALLERS MYSTERIUM UM
CLOSE PUBLIC HEARING THIS IS
WE DO NOT HAVE THAT WE WILL
NUMBER SEVEN ON NUMBER SEVEN
CLOSE PUBLIC HEARING THIS IS
PUBLIC HEARINGS FOR THE NEXT
NUMBER SEVEN ON NUMBER SEVEN
BUSINESS MEETING STAFF SORRY.
PUBLIC HEARINGS FOR THE NEXT
WE'RE MOVING QUICKLY GET IT
BUSINESS MEETING STAFF SORRY.
TOGETHER BY TOMORROW.
WE'RE MOVING QUICKLY GET IT
YEAH, WE DO HAVE TWO PUBLIC
TOGETHER BY TOMORROW.
HEARINGS TO ANNOUNCE THAT WILL
YEAH, WE DO HAVE TWO PUBLIC
BE ON THE NEXT PLANNING
HEARINGS TO ANNOUNCE THAT WILL
COMMISSION MEETING WHICH IS
BE ON THE NEXT PLANNING
TUESDAY, OCTOBER TWENTY THIRD
COMMISSION MEETING WHICH IS
AT SEVEN P.M. THE FIRST IS FOR
TUESDAY, OCTOBER TWENTY THIRD
SIXTEEN FIFTY FIVE PLYMOUTH
AT SEVEN P.M. THE FIRST IS FOR
ROAD A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
SIXTEEN FIFTY FIVE PLYMOUTH
PARTY ZONED PARCEL SITE PLANNED
ROAD A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT
FOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
PARTY ZONED PARCEL SITE PLANNED
APPROVAL.
FOR CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
IT IS A PROPOSAL TO DEMOLISH
APPROVAL.
THE EXISTING STRUCTURE FORMERLY
IT IS A PROPOSAL TO DEMOLISH
THE WENDY'S RESTAURANT AND
THE EXISTING STRUCTURE FORMERLY
CONSTRUCT AN APPROXIMATELY TWO
THE WENDY'S RESTAURANT AND
THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE
CONSTRUCT AN APPROXIMATELY TWO
FOOT TACO BELL RESTAURANT WITH
THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED SQUARE
SINGLE DRIVE THRU LANE SITE
FOOT TACO BELL RESTAURANT WITH
ACCESS TO REMAIN OFF
SINGLE DRIVE THRU LANE SITE
OF PLYMOUTH ROAD AND OSAGE
ACCESS TO REMAIN OFF
DRIVE WITH THIRTY FIVE PARKING
OF PLYMOUTH ROAD AND OSAGE
SPACES LOCATED IN THE FRONT
DRIVE WITH THIRTY FIVE PARKING
OF THE RESTAURANT.
SPACES LOCATED IN THE FRONT
THIS IS A ZERO POINT NINE EIGHT
OF THE RESTAURANT.
ACRE SITE THE SECOND PUBLIC
THIS IS A ZERO POINT NINE EIGHT
HEARING ON TUESDAY
ACRE SITE THE SECOND PUBLIC
OCTOBER TWENTY MEETING STARTING
HEARING ON TUESDAY
AT SEVEN P.M. IS WHAT I SAY
OCTOBER TWENTY MEETING STARTING
NATURALLY THE SECOND MEETING
AT SEVEN P.M. IS WHAT I SAY
FOR TUESDAY OCTOBER 3RD, 2023
NATURALLY THE SECOND MEETING
STARTING AT SEVEN P.M. IS NINE
FOR TUESDAY OCTOBER 3RD, 2023
HUNDRED BRIARWOOD A SITE PLAN
STARTING AT SEVEN P.M. IS NINE
AND REZONING FOR CITY COUNCIL
HUNDRED BRIARWOOD A SITE PLAN
APPROVAL.
AND REZONING FOR CITY COUNCIL
THE DEVELOPER IS PROPOSING TO
APPROVAL.
RAISE THE EXISTING SEARS STORE
THE DEVELOPER IS PROPOSING TO
WHICH IS ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
RAISE THE EXISTING SEARS STORE
SIX THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED AND
WHICH IS ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
SEVENTY SEVEN SQUARE FEET AND
SIX THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED AND
CONSTRUCT A GROCER AT FIFTY
SEVENTY SEVEN SQUARE FEET AND
SEVEN THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED
CONSTRUCT A GROCER AT FIFTY
NINETY FOUR SQUARE FEET AND A
SEVEN THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED
SPORTING GOODS STORE 100000
NINETY FOUR SQUARE FEET AND A
SQUARE FEET TWO LEVELS AND AN
SPORTING GOODS STORE 100000
ADJACENT PLAYING FIELD.
SQUARE FEET TWO LEVELS AND AN
IN ADDITION TO THE RETAIL, THE
ADJACENT PLAYING FIELD.
PROPOSAL INCLUDES 354 UNITS
IN ADDITION TO THE RETAIL, THE
OF MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL IN A
PROPOSAL INCLUDES 354 UNITS
FOUR STORY BUILDING OR
OF MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL IN A
BUILDINGS PLANNED TO BE
FOUR STORY BUILDING OR
CONSTRUCTED ADJACENT TO THE
BUILDINGS PLANNED TO BE
GROCERY STORE.
CONSTRUCTED ADJACENT TO THE
A PARKING GARAGE WILL BE
GROCERY STORE.
CONSTRUCTED SURROUNDING THE
A PARKING GARAGE WILL BE
RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
CONSTRUCTED SURROUNDING THE
PARKING SPACES WILL BE
RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
REDESIGNED ON THE SITE WITH
PARKING SPACES WILL BE
LANDSCAPING AND STORMWATER
REDESIGNED ON THE SITE WITH
INFILTRATION.
LANDSCAPING AND STORMWATER
ISLANDS ADDED A NEW INTERNAL
INFILTRATION.
CONNECTOR ROADWAY IS PROPOSED
ISLANDS ADDED A NEW INTERNAL
TO BE CONSTRUCTED, CREATING A
CONNECTOR ROADWAY IS PROPOSED
NEW INTERSECTION WITH BRIERRE
TO BE CONSTRUCTED, CREATING A
WITH CIRCLE E OF MALL DRIVE
NEW INTERSECTION WITH BRIERRE
REZONING FROM P PARKING TO C TO
WITH CIRCLE E OF MALL DRIVE
BE THE SITE IS EIGHTEEN POINT
REZONING FROM P PARKING TO C TO
TWO ACRES.
BE THE SITE IS EIGHTEEN POINT
IT IS THE TOTAL SITE PLANNED
TWO ACRES.
AREA OF WHICH EIGHT POINT TO
IT IS THE TOTAL SITE PLANNED
NINE ACRES IS PROPOSED TO BE
AREA OF WHICH EIGHT POINT TO
RESOLVED.
NINE ACRES IS PROPOSED TO BE
THANK YOU WITH THAT WE ARE
RESOLVED.
MOVING ON TO SECTION NINE
THANK YOU WITH THAT WE ARE
OF THE AGENDA REGULAR BUSINESS
MOVING ON TO SECTION NINE
.
OF THE AGENDA REGULAR BUSINESS
THIS IS THE UDC PREMIUM'S
.
AMENDMENT.
THIS IS THE UDC PREMIUM'S
I WILL INTRODUCE THE PETITION
AMENDMENT.
AMENDMENT TO THE UNIFIED
I WILL INTRODUCE THE PETITION
DEVELOPMENT CODE CHAPTER FIFTY
AMENDMENT TO THE UNIFIED
FIVE OF THE UNIVERSITY
DEVELOPMENT CODE CHAPTER FIFTY
CODE PREMIUM'S AMENDMENTS
FIVE OF THE UNIVERSITY
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UTC TO
CODE PREMIUM'S AMENDMENTS
ELIMINATE FLOOR AREA PREMIUMS
CHAPTER FIFTY FIVE UTC TO
PROVIDED IN SECTION FIVE POINT
ELIMINATE FLOOR AREA PREMIUMS
ONE EIGHT POINT SIX PREMIUMS
PROVIDED IN SECTION FIVE POINT
AND TO CHANGE THE MAXIMUM
ONE EIGHT POINT SIX PREMIUMS
EFFORT ARE THE DOWNTOWN D ONE
AND TO CHANGE THE MAXIMUM
CORE AND D TO DOWNTOWN
EFFORT ARE THE DOWNTOWN D ONE
INTERFACE IN SECTIONS FIVE
CORE AND D TO DOWNTOWN
POINT ONE SEVEN POINT FOR MIXED
INTERFACE IN SECTIONS FIVE
USE ZONING DISTRICTS TABLE FIVE
POINT ONE SEVEN POINT FOR MIXED
POINT ONE SEVEN DASH FOR UP TO
USE ZONING DISTRICTS TABLE FIVE
NINE HUNDRED PERCENT AND FOR
POINT ONE SEVEN DASH FOR UP TO
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
NINE HUNDRED PERCENT AND FOR
RESPECTIVELY TO NONE.
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS IS
RESPECTIVELY TO NONE.
APPROVAL WILL MOVE ON TO
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATIONS IS
CONSULTANT PRESENTATION AND I
APPROVAL WILL MOVE ON TO
BELIEVE PRIOR TO THAT WE HAVE
CONSULTANT PRESENTATION AND I
RECUSALS FROM YES THANK YOU
BELIEVE PRIOR TO THAT WE HAVE
COMMISSIONER.
RECUSALS FROM YES THANK YOU
SURELY I'D LIKE TO RECUSE
COMMISSIONER.
MYSELF AT THIS TIME BASED ON
SURELY I'D LIKE TO RECUSE
INVOLVEMENT OF AN ACTIVE
MYSELF AT THIS TIME BASED ON
PETITION IN THE D ONE DISTRICT
INVOLVEMENT OF AN ACTIVE
.
PETITION IN THE D ONE DISTRICT
SO THANK YOU.
.
THANK YOU.
SO THANK YOU.
AND WITH THAT I WILL ALSO MOVE
THANK YOU.
TO RECUSE MYSELF FROM THIS
AND WITH THAT I WILL ALSO MOVE
DISCUSSION AS MY EMPLOYER OWNS
TO RECUSE MYSELF FROM THIS
PROPERTY IN THE DIFONZO
.
ALL RIGHT.
SO WE ARE NOW WELCOMING OUR
COLLEAGUE FROM KYLAH WORTMAN
FOR A BRIEF PRESENTATION
.
YEAH, THANK YOU
FOR A WHILE.
I'LL HAVE A GREAT PRESENTATION
ON I'M NOT HERE TO TALK ABOUT
THE POOL TAXONOMIES I MEAN THE
PREMIUM AS WELL AS THE
REGULATION.
HOWEVER, UNLESS YOU THAT IN
ORDER TO START THIS DISCUSSION
GOING BACK TO TALKING ABOUT THE
PROCESS AND HOW WE GOT THE CITY
AND LANGUAGE AND WORKING ON
NINE MONTHS, I THINK THE TIMING
OF THIS IS REALLY APPROPRIATE
BASED ON THE FRAMEWORK THAT
YOU'RE DOING AS WELL AS THE
HISTORICAL IS ADDRESSING SOME
OF IN OUR HOUSE STARTED WAY
BACK WHEN IN JANUARY WAS WE
STARTED WITH A REVIEW AN
ANALYSIS OF THE EXISTING
PREMIUMS AND OF A PARTICULAR OR
NOT WAS THAT THAT PROCESS WAS
TO ENSURE THAT THE CURRENT
HELPS TURN ON THE MICROPHONE.
I HOPE YOU HEARD MY
INTRODUCTION.
OK, THANK YOU.
SO A PRETTY IMPORTANT IMPORTANT
WAS TO ENSURE AND AND DISCUSS
WHETHER OR NOT THE EXISTING
PREMIUMS WERE ONE CONSISTENT
WITH THE CURRENT CITY GOALS AND
POLICIES TO TO ENSURE OR
DISCUSS HOW THEY WERE BEING
UTILIZED OR HOW THEY WERE NOT
BEING UTILIZED BASED ON THE
EXISTING REVIEW OF THE PREMIUMS
WITH BOTH THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THE CEF WE FELT
THAT THEY WERE NOT ADVANCING
CITY GOALS AND POTENTIALLY
STIFLING DEVELOPMENT
OF DOWNTOWN POLICY IS TRYING TO
ACHIEVE.
SO FROM THERE WE WORK WITH THE
CITY AND VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS
TO ONE ESTABLISH POTENTIAL
ASSUMPTIONS FOR THESE
AMENDMENTS TO ENSURE THAT WE
WERE ALL ON THE SAME PAGE
WORKING OFF THE SAME SHEET
MUSIC WITH REGARDS TO WHAT WE
ASSUMED WAS HAPPENING IN THE
DOWNTOWN WITH REGARDS TO
DEVELOPMENT DRAFT POLICY
OPTIONS FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND OTHERS TO
CONSIDER THAT THOSE POLICY
OPTIONS WITH VARIOUS
STAKEHOLDERS AND COMMITTEE
MEMBERS PRESENT A UDC
AMENDMENTS FOR CONSIDERATION
AND THAT'S WHERE WE'RE AT
TONIGHT IS CONSIDERING ACTUAL
TEXT TO THE PROPOSED UDC WITH
REGARDS TO ZONING.
IT'S ALSO WORTH NOTING THAT
THIS WAS NOT DONE IN A VACUUM
JUST BETWEEN THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THE CITY STAFF
IN US.
WE OVER THE PAST EIGHT MONTHS
HAVE GONE OUT AND DISCUSSED
THESE OPTIONS WITH THE VARIOUS
STAKEHOLDERS MULTIPLE POINTS
THROUGHOUT THE PROCESS AND
STAKEHOLDERS.
I'M NOT GOING TO LEAVE OUT A
FEW INCLUDED AFFORDABLE HOUSING
COMMUNITY THE DOWNTOWN
AUTHORITY, THE SUSTAINABILITY
COMMUNITY AND THE BUILDING AND
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY.
SO THEY WERE ALL PART OF THAT
DISCUSSION GETTING TO THE POINT
WE'RE AT TODAY TO MOVE FORWARD
.
SO I'M NOT GOING TO SPEND A LOT
OF TIME ON THESE ASSUMPTIONS
BECAUSE WE HAVE VETTED THESE
AND GONE OVER THESE IN DETAIL
OVER THE
PAST NINE MONTHS.
BUT IT'S IMPORTANT TO NOTE THAT
WE USE THESE AS THE FOUNDATION
UNDER WHICH WE WOULD APPROACH
THE AMENDMENTS TO THE THE
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
BUT IN SUMMARY, BASICALLY THE
ASSUMPTIONS THAT WE ALL CAME
ABOUT AS A GROUP WAS THERE
SHOULD BE AN EQUAL EQUILIBRIUM
OR BALANCE OF LAND USERS IN THE
DOWNTOWN BETWEEN RESIDENTIAL,
COMMERCIAL AND OTHER AN OFFICE
USES DEVELOPING IN DOWNTOWN IS
MORE DIFFICULT AND MORE
EXPENSIVE THAN ANYWHERE ELSE IN
THE CITY SINCE THE LAST THAT
WAS THE PREMIUM IN TWENTY
NINETEEN THERE HAS BEEN AN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING VILLAGE
WHICH DOES SUPPORT ADDITIONAL
HOUSING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
EFFORTS IN THE CITY.
BUT I THINK WE RECOGNIZE THAT
THAT ALONE IS NOT ENOUGH TO
MEET AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEMANDS
.
A SIGNIFICANT NUMBER
OF PROPERTIES ARE INELIGIBLE
FOR PRIMA'S IN THE DOWNTOWN
BASED ON THEIR LOCATION EITHER
IN HISTORIC DISTRICT
CONSIDERATIONS AND OR LOCATION
IN THE FLOODPLAIN.
THE CURRENT RESIDENTIAL MARKET
IN THE DOWNTOWN CURRENTLY BEING
BUILT IS EITHER HIGH AND LOW
SKILL RESIDENTIAL OR STUDENT
RENTAL AND IT DOES NOT PROVIDE
THE NECESSARY ATTAINABLE HIGH
DENSITY THAT WE ARE SEEKING
STABLE HOUSING.
THE DOWNTOWN IS IMPORTANT TO
ADDRESS BOTH CURRENT AND FUTURE
RESIDENTS NEEDS AND LASTLY
CURRENT PREMIUMS ARE NOT BEING
UTILIZED TO THEIR POTENTIAL DUE
TO A VARIETY OF REASONS LEFTIST
MOVEMENT THANKS SO BASED ON
THOSE ASSUMPTIONS AND GOING AND
WORKING WITH THE PLANNING
COMMISSION THE VARIOUS
STAKEHOLDERS, THERE ARE THREE
COMMON GOALS THAT CAME OUT
OF WHAT WE ARE TRYING TO
ACHIEVE THROUGH THIS PROCESS
AND THROUGH THE PREMIUM
DISCUSSION.
FIRST WAS INCREASED THE
AFFORDABILITY OF IN THE
DOWNTOWN WITH REGARDS TO
HOUSING AND THIS IS
ACCOMPLISHED IN TWO WAYS BOTH
THROUGH STREAMLINING THE
DEVELOPMENT PROCESS BUT ALSO
INCREASING THE HOUSING SUPPLY
IN THE DOWNTOWN.
THE SECOND GOAL WAS TO INCREASE
SUSTAINABILITY AGAIN THIS GOES
MORE TO THE MARKET SIDE ABOUT
INCREASING THE AMOUNT OF SUPPLY
IN THE DOWNTOWN BECAUSE THIS IS
WHERE THE INFRASTRUCTURE, THE
JOBS TRANSPORT AND
MISCELLANEOUS ARE CURRENTLY
EXIST TO SUPPORT ADDITIONAL
HOUSING AND LASTLY INCREASE THE
EQUITY IN THE DOWNTOWN OF BOTH
FOR SUPPLY OF HOUSING AND
COMMERCIAL BUT ALSO IN THE
DEVELOPMENT POOL OF APPLICANTS
THAT CAN ACTUALLY DEVELOP AND
BUILD IN THE DOWNTOWN.
SO THOSE ARE THE THREE GOALS
THAT WE STARTED THAT THEY WERE
FORMED OUT OF THIS DISCUSSION
ON.
SO BASED ON ASSUMPTIONS THAT
LED THESE GOALS.
BUT THE DISCUSSION WITH THE
PLANNING COMMISSION IS WE'RE AT
TONIGHT IT'S FUNNY BECAUSE WE
HAD SPENT EIGHT MONTHS TO COME
UP WITH PRETTY SIMPLE TACKSMEN
.
IT'S ACTUALLY REMOVING LANGUAGE
NOT ADDING NOT MANY IS REMOVING
LANGUAGE.
SO ESSENTIALLY BASED ON THESE
GOALS THE PROPOSED AMENDMENT IS
TO ELIMINATE FAA REGULATIONS
FROM THE D ONE AND TWO AND
REGULATE MACING THROUGH
SETBACKS AND FIGHT IN THE
SECOND BY ELIMINATING THE D ONE
DAY TO THE NEED FOR PREMIUMS
ARE ELIMINATED AND THOSE ARE
RECOMMENDED FOR REMOVAL AS WELL
.
SO WHAT'S THE IMPACT OF THESE
OF THESE AMENDMENTS?
FIRST OFF IN OUR RESEARCH
OF COMPARABLE COMMUNITIES WE
FOUND THAT MOST DO NOT HAVE
PREMIUMS AND MOST REGULATE
MACING THROUGH EITHER F.R. OR
HYP BUT THEY DON'T DO IT WITH
BOTH.
WE FOUND THAT ELIMINATING THE
FACTOR AND RATHER REGULATING
THROUGH HIGH AND SETBACKS AND
OTHER MEASURES MAKES DEVELOPING
THIS TOWN EASIER STREAMLINES
THE PROCESS IT MAKES IT EASIER
FOR CITY ADMINISTRATION AS PART
OF THE REVIEW ESSENTIALLY WE
FOUND THAT UTILIZING BOTH FFR
AND HEIGHT WAS COMPLEX AND NOT
NECESSARILY WOULD AFFECT THE
DEVELOPMENT MASSING IN THE
DOWNTOWN BECAUSE WHAT WE FOUND
WAS THAT THERE WAS NOT A
LIMITING FACTOR ON DEVELOPMENT
IN THE DOWNTOWN.
IT WAS HEIGHT WAS LIVING IN
RESTRICTING FACTOR.
SO BY LIMITING RAFAAT YOU'RE
REALLY NOT AFFECTING WHAT CAN
BE BUILT IN THE DOWNTOWN.
WE DO NOT THAT WE ARE NOT
MAKING ANY CHANGES TO THE
HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS ARE
SUSTAINABLE AND AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS THAT
PROVISION THAT ARE STILL STILL
EXIST.
WE ARE ALSO NOT CREATING ANY
NEW PRECEDENTS IN THE CITY BY
DOING THIS AS YOU'VE ALREADY
LIMITED FBAR CONSIDERATIONS IN
THE TCW AND AGAIN YOU REGULATE
THAT THROUGH HEIGHT AND
SETBACKS AS WELL.
AND LASTLY AND PERHAPS MOST
IMPORTANTLY, THE CITY NOW IS
UNDERGOING A COMPREHENSIVE
PROCESS WHERE THE ISSUE
OF HEIGHT IN THE DOWNTOWN
PROBABLY SHOULD AND COULD BE
DISCUSSED THAT PROCESS IN
CONTEXT OF THE LARGER CITY
GOALS WAS TRYING TO BE
ACHIEVED.
SO AGAIN, JUST TO REITERATE THE
REGULATIONS THAT ARE GOING TO
REMAIN THAT WE RECOMMENDING IS
FROM A MARKETING STANDPOINT
STILL GOING TO REGULATE MACING
THROUGH THE CHARACTERS OWNS THE
FRONT SET BACKS WILL REMAIN.
THERE'S NO PROPOSAL CHANGE TO
THAT AND THE HEIGHT
RESTRICTIONS WILL STILL REMAIN
SO FOR THAT REASON WE DO THINK
THAT THE FAMILIAR BUILDING
FORMS YOU SEE TODAY WILL REMAIN
SINCE THE BUILDING MASSINA AND
SETBACKS ARE NOT PROPOSED TO
CHANGE THAT WE WERE ELIMINATING
THE FAA ARE AS PART OF THE
EQUATION AND LASTLY AS I KNOW
AT THE HEIGHT BONUS WILL ALSO
REMAIN AS IS MOVING AS WELL.
LAST SLIDE I BELIEVE SO IT'S
ALSO IMPORTANT TO TO WHEN YOU
CONSIDER ZONING AMENDMENTS
IMPORTANT TO CONSIDER WHAT THE
IMPLICATIONS ARE, WHAT THE
CONSEQUENCES ARE AND WHAT SOME
UNINTENDED CONSEQUENCES MAY BE.
I'VE ADDRESSED MOST OF THESE IN
THE PRESENTATION BUT I JUST
WANT TO REITERATE AGAIN ONCE
AGAIN MOST COMPARABLE
COMMUNITIES DO NOT REGULATE THE
FAA ARE IN HEIGHT.
THEY PICK ONE TO REGULATE
MAXIMUM AND MOST DO NOT HAVE
ANY SORT OF PREMIUM MEASURE IN
THEIR ORDINANCE.
WE DON'T THINK THERE'S GOING TO
BE AN INCREASE IN BILLABLE AREA
SINCE THE HEIGHT AGAIN IS THAT
MOST OF THE LIMITING FACTOR
THAT WE STUDY FOR THE RECENT
DEVELOPMENTS IN THE DOWNTOWN?
HOWEVER, WE DO KNOW IT IS
PROBABLY LIKELY THAT IT'S GOING
BE EASIER TO REACH THE MAXIMUM
HEIGHT BECAUSE OF THOSE FAA
RESTRICTIONS ARE REMOVED.
WE ARE LIKELY TO SEE SIMILAR
BUILDING FORMS BECAUSE AGAIN WE
ARE NOT CHANGING HEIGHT MASSEN
OR BUILDING FRONT SETBACKS.
WE ANTICIPATE A SIMILAR AMOUNT
OF CONSTRUCTION.
WE'VE SEEN THE DOWNTOWN TO WHAT
WE SAW PREMI FOR THE LAST ROUND
OF PREMIUM AMENDMENTS.
AGAIN THAT'S VERY CONTINGENT ON
MARKET CONDITIONS AND WE JUST
CAN'T PREDICT WHAT THAT'S GOING
TO BE.
BUT AT LEAST WE'RE LIMITING
RESTRICTIONS TO DESIGN
ORDINANCE.
WE DO THINK THAT'S GOING TO BE
A NUMBER OF DWELLING UNITS
PROPOSED INCREASE FROM WHAT
WE'VE SEEN IN THE LAST TWO
YEARS AND WE THINK MOST
IMPORTANTLY PERHAPS IS THAT THE
DIVERSITY OF THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT OPENS UP TOO
BECAUSE WE'RE LOWERING THAT BAR
REQUIREMENTS.
SO IN SUMMARY WE ARE
RECOMMENDING BASED ON THE
DIRECTION FROM THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND OTHER
STAKEHOLDERS TO ELIMINATE THE R
AND THE D ONE AND TWO AND
REMOVED THE PREMIUM SECTION
FROM THE UDOH AS WELL.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR. DO YOU HAVE A
STAFF PRESENTATION
?
ONLY VERY BRIEFLY AND IT'S JUST
TO POINT OUT SOME OF THE
RESOURCES THAT ARE AVAILABLE
AND AS IT DID GO UP RIGHT THEN
THIS IS CLEARLY NOT MY NIGHT.
I'M JUST GOING TO GET THAT IT'S
GOING TO GET THAT THERE THAT'S
BEEN MENTIONED.
WE STARTED AND KICKED OFF IN
FEBRUARY WITH A PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING WHERE WE
WENT OVER WHAT OUR INITIAL
REVIEW AND ANALYSIS WAS AND
THEN WE WORKED THROUGH MEETINGS
IN APRIL MAY STAKEHOLDER
MEETINGS IN MAY AND JUNE.
WE TALKED ABOUT CONCEPTS AND
OPTIONS ABOUT WHAT TO DO IN
JULY AND AGAIN IN AUGUST AND
HERE WE ARE BEFORE YOU THE
PLANNING STAFF DO RECOMMEND
APPROVAL OF THE PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS.
WE HAVE PREPARED THE ORDINANCE
LANGUAGE FOR YOU TO CONSIDER
AND AS I'VE MENTIONED WE HAVE
DONE SOME ANALYSIS LOOK AT PAST
PROJECTS THAT HAVE BEEN
RECENTLY APPROVED SAY IN THE
PAST 10 YEARS BOTH IN THE ONE
IN THE D TO THINKING ABOUT THAT
THAT WHAT IF SCENARIO AND WHAT
IF WE DID THIS A FEW YEARS AGO
AND WHAT WE'RE DOING AND WHAT
WE FOUND IS THAT MOST PROJECTS
EITHER GOT TO THE MAXIMUM THAT
THEY ARE OR IF THEY DIDN'T IT'S
BECAUSE THEY RAN INTO THE
HEIGHT LIMIT AND SO WITH THESE
CHANGES THE PHYSICAL SKYLINE
WILL PROBABLY CHANGE NOW IT
WILL GET TALLER BECAUSE AS NEW
DEVELOPMENT COMES ONLINE NEW
BUILDINGS BUT THESE NEW
BUILDINGS PROPOSED ARE PROBABLY
GOING TO BE OF THE SAME SIZE
AND SCALE AND ALL DEPENDING ON
THE SIZE OF THE SITE COMPARED
TO WHAT THEY HAVE BEEN THE
MARKET IS ASKING FOR
RESIDENTIAL.
THIS IS PROBABLY WHAT WE'RE
STILL GOING TO BE SEEING EVEN
THOUGH WE ARE NOT HAVING A
RESIDENTIAL PREMIUM.
THESE NEW DEVELOPMENTS WILL
CONTINUE TO SUPPORT OUR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING VILLAGE AND
ALSO JUST OUR DOWNTOWN TAX
INCREMENT FINANCING DISTRICTS
THAT AND THEN THOSE MONIES CAN
BE THEN USED FOR OTHER
SUPPORTIVE FOR SUPPORTIVE
THINGS AS THEY ARE INTENDED
THEN AND MYSELF WE'RE HAPPY TO
ANSWER ANY QUESTIONS AND BUT
I'LL STOP THERE AND LET THE
DISCUSSION BEGIN.
THANK YOU.
SO NOW MOVE TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS ITEM AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR PERSONS TO
SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
ABOUT THE PROPOSED CHAPTER.
FIFTY FIVE CITY CODE AMENDMENTS
REGARDING DOWNTOWN PREMIUM'S
EXCUSE ME.
I WILL FIRST CALL AN
INDIVIDUALS PRESENT TO ADDRESS
THE COMMISSION AND THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THE PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY
BRUSSTAR NINE IF LISTENING BY
PHONE OR USE THE RAISED HAND
FEATURE IF A VIEWING THROUGH
THE WEBLINK FOR PHONE ACCESS
CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND UNDER MEETING ID NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX CITY TRAFFIC LIGHT
CALLERS WHO HAVE RAISED THEIR
HANDS IN THE LAST THREE DIGITS
OF THEIR PHONE NUMBER OR BY
NAME IF AVAILABLE FOR THOSE
ACCESSING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
YOU WILL HEAR AN AUTOMATED
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE HOST IS
ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK WHEN
SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND MUTE TELEVISION OR
BACKGROUND SOUNDS SO WE MAY
HEAR YOU CLEARLY FOR EITHER
METHOD OF PARTICIPATION AND
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME YOU
CAN APPROACH THE PODIUM.
THANKS.
HELLO MY NAME'S CARSON
MEDEVACING AND I LIVE AT ONE
MARTIAL
COURT IN ANN ARBOR AND
I'M JUST HERE TO SPEAK IN
SUPPORT OF THE CHANGE TO THE
FAA.
OUR REQUIREMENTS, THE REMOVAL
OF THE FAA REQUIREMENTS BECAUSE
IT IS ONE THING THAT I DO
BELIEVE EVEN JUST LIKE TRYING
TO READ IT MYSELF IT JUST
SEEMED VERY COMPLICATED.
AND IF WE'RE TRYING TO
ENCOURAGE DEVELOPMENT DOWNTOWN
ANN ARBOR, WHICH I BELIEVE THAT
WE SHOULD THEN THAT IS REMOVING
THOSE REQUIREMENTS IS ONE WAY
TO REDUCE RED TAPE AND ALLOW
MORE HOUSING UNITS TO BE BUILT
FOR OUR PEOPLE.
JUST GIVE ME AN EXAMPLE OF A
CITY THAT'S NOT QUITE AS
EQUIVALENT TO OURS.
BUT I SEE THAT'S ALSO THOUGHT
ABOUT REDOING TREES ARE ABOUT
CHANGING ZONING IN MINNEAPOLIS.
THEY RECENTLY COMPLETED A WELL
IT'S BEEN SEVERAL YEARS SINCE
THEY COMPLETED A CHANGE TO
THEIR ZONING PROCESS THAT
INCREASED OUR LIMITS AND THAT
CITY IN THE PAST FIVE OR SO
YEARS HAS HAD THE LOWEST RATE
OF RENT INFLATION IN THE
COUNTRY.
SO IN ANN ARBOR WHERE RENT IS
SO HIGH AS IT IS, I BELIEVE
THAT THIS IS ONE WAY OF HELPING
TO REDUCE THAT OR HELPING TO
REDUCE FUTURE BURDEN ON PEOPLE.
SO THANK YOU FOR ALLOWING ME MY
TIME TO SPEAK AND THAT'S ALL.
THANKS.
IS THERE ANYBODY ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION
OR
YES YOU CAN ON
YOUR WAY.
I RECOMMEND AND I KNOW YES TO
READ THE RECAP I SUPPORT THIS
BUT SO YEAH YOU CAN GET IT OUT
OF THE HOUSING CRISIS OR AT
LEAST WE DISCUSS OUR PRICES
CELEBRATING WITH GREAT HEIGHT
MAKES TOTAL SENSE BUT YOU CAN'T
GROW YOUR WAY OUT OF A CLIMATE
CRISIS UNLESS IT'S NET ZERO
ENERGY AND THEN YOUR BUILDING
WILL ADD CARBON TO THE
ATMOSPHERE AND THE BIGGER THE
BUILDING THE MORE CARBON YES.
DENSITY SUSTAINABILITY BUT
MARKET ONLY COMPARED TO THE
IMPACT OF BURNING AS I'VE
CRUNCHED THE NUMBERS THAT'S WHY
IT SEEMS THAT OUR NEW
CONSTRUCTION STARTING IN TWENTY
TWENTY TWO IS NET ZERO ENERGY
INCLUDING NO GAS RIGHT NOW THE
SUSTAINABILITY COMPONENT
CONSISTS OF OUR SUSTAINABILITY
EXCEPTION.
THE EXCEPTION CONSISTS OF SOLAR
PANELS COVERING SIXTY PERCENT
OF THE ROOF SPACE AND IF THE
BUILDING IS NOT FULLY ELECTRIC
AT THE TIME OF CONSTRUCTION IT
HAS THE CAPACITY TO ACHIEVE
ELECTRIFICATION AT A FUTURE
DATE THAT'S NOT GOOD ENOUGH TO
ELIMINATE TO ZERO AND AVOID ANY
EMISSIONS.
WE SHOULD ONLY ALLOW EXTRA
HEIGHT IF THERE IS FOR
ELECTRIFICATION AT THE TIME
OF CONSTRUCTION AND NET ZERO
ENERGY AND INCLUDE BOTH THE AND
THAT SHOULD INCLUDE BOTH THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND
SUSTAINABILITY COMPONENTS FOR
THAT 30 PERCENT HEIGHT BONUS
NOT JUST ONE OR THE OTHER.
WE CAN'T PUT A BUILDINGS THAT
LOCK IN DECADES OF CARBON
EMISSIONS AND CERTAINLY NOT BE
INCENTIVIZING THEM TO BUILD
EVEN HIGHER.
MAYBE THAT WOULD HAVE MADE
SENSE 20 OR THIRTY YEARS AGO
BUT NOT NOW.
CARBON BUDGETS ARE DWINDLING
FOR ANY FUTURE THAT WE CARE TO
LIVE IN APPROVES OF OUR MOVE ON
DAY ONE AND TWO.
BUT TO GET TO GO TO GET THE 30
PERCENT ADDITIONAL RATE
REQUIRED BOTH AFFORDABLE
HOUSING SUSTAINABILITY
COMPONENTS THAT ONE OR THE
OTHER AND CHANGE THE DEFINITION
OF SUSTAINABILITY TO INCLUDE
NET ZERO ENERGY BUILDINGS AND
NO GAS AT THE TIME
OF CONSTRUCTION.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYBODY WHO WOULD LIKE
TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSIONER
ABOUT THE YES, WE HAVE ONE
PARTICIPANT, ALEX LOWE.
YOU ALEX LOWE YOU MAY NOW ON
MUTE AND ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES
AGAIN I WANT TO I SUPPORT THIS.
I THINK WE SHOULD BE GETTING
RID OF ALL FAA RESTRICTIONS
THROUGHOUT THE CITY.
I THINK THAT WE SHOULD BE
MASSIVELY LIBERALIZING OUR
RESTRICTIONS IN GENERAL AND I
THINK THAT IF WE REALLY WANT TO
TACKLE THE THE ENVIRONMENTAL
DAMAGE CAUSED BY BUILDINGS
WITHIN A CITY THAT IS MOSTLY
CONSTRUCTED ALREADY, WE SHOULD
BE FOCUSING ON HOW WE CAN MAKE
SURE THAT THOSE EXISTING FIXES
OR ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY FOR
FOR EXAMPLE, INSTEAD INSTEAD
OF MAKING MAKING IT HARDER TO
BUILD NEW BUILDINGS WHICH JUST
LEADS TO MORE AND MORE
BUILDINGS THAT ARE LESS
EFFICIENT AND AND LONGER
COMMUTES FOR PEOPLE THAT ARE
NOT FURTHER OUT WHICH SEEMS
LIKE A LOSE LOSE SITUATION TO
ME ON SEVERAL SUBWAY LET'S
RATHER FOCUS ON YEAH.
IF YOU ALSO PEOPLE TALKING
YOU'RE GOING TO HAVE TO START
PAYING AGILELY FOR THE
ENVIRONMENT COST TO THAT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
THERE ARE NO OTHER PARTICIPANTS
OR CALLERS FOR ONE LAST CHANCE
ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
AT THIS PUBLIC HEARING PRESS
STAR NINE TO RAISE YOUR HAND OR
RAISE YOUR HAND AGAIN THERE ARE
NO HANDS RAISED.
ALL RIGHT.
AND I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND I'LL READ THE
PROPOSED MOTION.
THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
THE AMENDMENTS TO CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT
CODE TO ELIMINATE THE FLOOR
AREA PREMIUMS PROVIDED IN
SECTION FIVE POINT ONE EIGHT
POINT SIX PREMIUMS AND TO
CHANGE THE MAXIMUM F.R. FLOOR
AREA RATIO AS A PERCENTAGE
OF WHAT AREA OF THE D ONE
DOWNTOWN CORE AND D TO DOWNTOWN
INTERFACE IN SECTION FIVE POINT
ONE SEVEN POINT FOR MIXED USE
ZONING DISTRICTS TABLE FIVE
POINT ONE SEVEN DASH FOR UP TO
NINE HUNDRED PERCENT AND 400
PERCENT RESPECTIVELY TO NONE
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER MILLER
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER.
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
IS THERE ANYBODY WHO WOULD LIKE
TO BEGIN OUR DISCUSSION?
COMMISSIONER MILLS, I I THINK I
SAID THIS THE LAST TIME OR THE
SECOND THE LAST TIME WE TALKED
ABOUT THIS.
I WANT TO COMPLIMENT THIS
PROCESS AND THAT WE REALLY
STARTED WITH MAKING SURE WE
SHARED THE SAME ASSUMPTIONS AND
I THINK THAT THE TWEAKS TO THE
ASSUMPTIONS ACTUALLY WERE
REALLY USEFUL AND HELPFUL.
I APPRECIATED THEN THAT WE HAD
GOALS THAT WE TALKED ABOUT BOTH
ON COMMISSION AND IN THE
STAKEHOLDER GROUPS TO GET KIND
OF WHAT ARE THE PRIORITIES
ASSOCIATED WITH THIS AND I
APPRECIATE TO THAT THE SOLUTION
ARRIVED AT IS A SIMPLE SOLUTION
SUBTRACTION RATHER THAN AN
ADDITION AND I THINK THAT'S
REALLY ELEGANT AND I THINK THAT
THIS WILL MAKE FOR CLEARER
BETTER CODE THAT I THINK WILL
ACHIEVE OUR GOALS AND I THINK
THIS IS ALSO A JUST A GOOD
REMINDER TO ALL OF US THAT IF
SOMETHING'S NOT WORKING JUST
BECAUSE YOU DRAFT IT DOESN'T
MEAN CAST IN STONE FOREVER THAT
THE ZONING ORDINANCE IS A
LIVING DOCUMENT AND THAT WE
SHOULD BE EVALUATING IT TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE'RE GETTING WHAT IT
IS THAT WE WANT AND I I THINK
IT'S GREAT THAT WE WERE ABLE TO
DO THAT HERE.
SO I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO
SUPPORTING THIS COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE, I JUST LIKE TO ECHO
I FEEL A LITTLE BIT LIKE I FELL
ASLEEP AND WOKE UP FOUR YEARS
LATER AND WE'RE STILL TALKING
ABOUT THE SAME BECAUSE WHEN I
WAS LAST ON PLANNING COMMISSION
WE WERE JUST ABOUT TO APPROVE
THIS AND NOW HERE WE ARE
APPROVING A DIFFERENT VERSION
OF IT AND I ACTUALLY THINK IT'S
GREAT BECAUSE AS COMMISSIONER
MILLS POINTS OUT, YOU KNOW,
IT'S BEEN A BIG FOUR YEARS.
THINGS HAVE CHANGED AND WHAT WE
THE OUR INTENTION IS PRETTY
MUCH THE SAME.
WE WANT MORE AFFORDABILITY.
WE WANT MORE SUSTAINABILITY.
BUT IT'S JUST WE'RE THINKING
OF IT IN A SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT
WAY AND IT'S GREAT THAT WE'RE
MAKING THESE CHANGES TO MAKE
THAT PROCESS BETTER.
SO I THINK IT'S IT'S A REALLY
GOOD THING AND SOMETHING THAT
WE SHOULD THINK ABOUT FOR OTHER
PROCESSES THAT WE DO, PROCESSES
THAT WE DO BECAUSE LOOKING AT
50 YEAR OLD DOCUMENTS TO PLAN
THE FUTURE IS PROBABLY NOT
IDEAL.
I'M SURE THIS SO YES.
I ALSO WANT TO SEE THAT THE
PROCESS HAS BEEN TERRIFIC AND I
THINK THE OUTPUT IS GREAT BUT
IT'S A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS AND
PART OF THAT IS JUST BECAUSE
ONE OF MY ROLES IS TO BE ABLE
TO MAKE SURE THAT I CAN EXPLAIN
THIS TO THE PUBLIC AND SO I
HAVE TO MAKE SURE THAT I
UNDERSTAND IT REALLY, REALLY
WELL.
SO ABOUT SO ONE OF MY QUESTIONS
IS GOING
TO BE JUST NAILING HOW
MUCH WE HAVE ACTUALLY CHANGED
WITH THIS SUBTRACTION.
BUT ANOTHER QUESTION WHICH IS
PROBABLY EASIER IS YOU'RE IN
YOUR REPORT AT THE END IN THE
SUMMARY PART YOU NOTE THAT YOU
ARE SEEING MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT
THROUGHOUT SOUTH SOUTHEAST
MICHIGAN AND THAT THERE'S LOTS
OF FINANCING FOR THAT.
AND I WONDERED IF YOU ARE
TALKING ABOUT STUDENT HOUSING
OR ALL KINDS OF MULTI FAMILY
RENTAL HOUSING.
SO WE WORK THROUGHOUT SOUTHEAST
MICHIGAN, ANN ARBOR TAKE THIS
IN A GOOD SPIRIT IS A KIND
OF AN ANOMALY FOR A LOT
OF REASONS TELEVISION.
SO WE'RE SEEING A SIGNIFICANT
AMOUNT OF HOUSING, MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING THROUGHOUT THE AREA
THAT WE WORK IN.
IT'S NOT STUDENT HOUSING.
IT'S IT'S IT'S MOSTLY MARKET
RATE HOUSING WHICH WE SEE VERY
LITTLE STUDENT HOUSING OUTSIDE
OF THE UNIVERSITY AREA, SOME
OF THE SURROUNDING TOWNSHIPS WE
WORK AND WE SEE A LOT
OF STUDENT HOUSING BUT OUTSIDE
OF THAT AREA WE DON'T SEE ANY
STUDENT HOUSING.
IT'S IT'S MARKET RATE.
MULTIFAMILY HOUSING IS MOSTLY
OK AND EVERYTHING FROM DUPLEXES
ALL THE WAY TO TO HIGHER HER
HIGHER RISE OR MULTI OR MID
RISE APARTMENT TYPE
DEVELOPMENTS.
OK, OK THAT'S GREAT.
THAT'S THAT'S GOOD TO HEAR.
SO WE ARE ANOMALOUS IN THAT OK
SO I AM TRYING TO UNDERSTAND
EXACTLY WHAT SIMPLIFIES THE
PREMIUMS OVER THE CURRENT MODEL
AND I I THINK THAT CLEARLY ONE
ASPECT OF IT IS BY REMOVING THE
FHA BY BY CEASING TO LINK OR
CEASING TO OFFER PREMIUMS THAT
ARE CALCULATED IN TERMS OF FAAT
BUT LINKING DIRECTLY TO HEIGHT
THAT IS A SIMPLIFICATION.
OK, YOU NOTE THAT TO QUALIFY
THAT SOME OF THE THINGS THAT
ARE CUMBERSOME ABOUT THE
CURRENT PROCESS IS THAT TO
QUALIFY FOR PREMIUMS CURRENTLY
A DEVELOPER MUST PROVIDE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND OR
ACHIEVE LEED CERTIFICATION SO
AM I INCORRECT THAT THIS WILL
STILL BE THE CASE EXCEPT THAT A
DEVELOPER WILL BE ABLE TO
PROVIDE 100 PERCENT PAYMENT IN
LIEU UNDER THE NEW RULES THAT
WE ARE ADOPTING?
SO YEAH SO THE RECOMMENDATION
IS TO ELIMINATE ALL PREMIUMS,
RIGHT?
SO THE THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
IN THE UNIT OR AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN LIEU IS REMOVED
OTHER THAN IF YOU GO FOR THE
HEIGHT WHICH WE DIDN'T SPEND
MUCH TIME IN DEPTH THROUGH THIS
PROCESS.
OK SO WE'RE WHERE WE STARTED
WAS LOOK AT THE PREMIUMS, TELL
US IF THEY'RE WORKING IF
THEY'RE NOT WORKING WHY NOT?
AND THROUGH THIS PROCESS IT'S
BEEN AN EVOLUTION IF YOU GOT
TWO MONTHS AGO WE WOULD HAVE
ENDED UP HERE TODAY.
I PROBABLY WOULDN'T HAVE
THOUGHT THAT TO BE TRUE.
BUT ONE OF THE FUNDAMENTAL
THINGS WITH ZONING IS MAKE WHAT
YOU WANT EASY TO DO AND FROM
EVERYTHING WE'VE HEARD AND
EVERYTHING WE DISCUSS WITH THE
COMMUNITY AND THE PLANNING
COMMISSION EASIER PROCESS,
SIMPLIFYING THE PROCESS,
OPENING UP THE FIELD TO OTHER
DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY IS A GOOD
THING AND THE EASIEST WAY TO DO
THAT IS TO ELIMINATE
UNNECESSARY OR BURDENSOME
REGULATIONS.
OK, SO LET ME TRY SO I WE'RE
MOVING SO NOT ADDING, NOT
AMENDING, NOT CHANGING BUT BY
REMOVING IF NOTHING ELSE YOU'RE
REMOVING A BURDENSOME
CUMBERSOME REGULATION THAT
STIFLING THE GOALS OF WHAT THIS
COMMUNITY IS TRYING TO ACHIEVE.
OK, SO IN THE MEMO THAT YOU
OFFERED US A COUPLE MONTHS AGO
WHICH WAS A GREAT CHANCE I'D GO
BACK FOUR MONTHS AGO HERE AS
THEY ARE NOW I WILL REMIND YOU
YOU YOU STATED AND YOU YOU
RESTATED IN THIS MEMO AS WELL
THAT WE WERE NOT SEEING
BUILDINGS MAXING OUT THEIR FLIR
WE WERE SEEING THEM MAXING OUT
HEIGHT SO HEIGHT IS LIMITING
DENSITY COULD SO YES, THESE
REFORMS ELIMINATE PREMIUMS BUT
THEY ALSO MAKE THEY ALSO I
DON'T KNOW IF THIS WAS ALWAYS
THE CASE BUT THEY ALSO SAY THAT
THE 30 PERCENT ADDITIONAL
HEIGHT THAT'S AVAILABLE
ELSEWHERE IN THE CITY FOR AN
AFFORDABILITY OR A
SUSTAINABILITY COMPONENT IS
AVAILABLE IN THE DOWNTOWN NOW
IF PROJECTS WERE MAXING OUT
HEIGHT UNDER THE CURRENT REGIME
,THAT SUGGESTS THAT MORE
HEIGHT IS DESIRED THAN WHAT OUR
HEIGHT LIMITS.
RIGHT.
AND SO WE MAY HAVE ELIMINATED
THE OLD SCHEME OF PREMIUMS THAT
WAS LINKED TO FAA ARE BUT
BECAUSE WE HAVE AN INCREASED
HEIGHT AT ALL WE ARE MAKING IT
LIKELY THAT PEOPLE WILL STILL
NEED WILL THAT THERE WILL STILL
BE A DESIRE TO HAVE A HEIGHT
INCREASE WHICH DOES CALL
PREMIUMS INTO PLAY.
THEY ARE CITY WIDE PREMIUMS NO
LONGER DOWNTOWN SPECIFIC
PREMIUMS NO LONGER TIED TO FAA
ARE OK VERY
IF IF THE FIRST
QUESTION IF YOU WERE JUST
MAKING SURE TO ESTABLISH AN
UNDERSTANDING I WILL STOP.
BUT IF YOU WERE LOOKING FOR
SOME CLARIFICATION I WOULD SAY
THAT MOST PROJECTS DOWNTOWN
HAVE USED THE PREMIUMS.
SO FIRST UP BUT THE BASE FBAR
IS FAIRLY LOW ABOUT HALF WHAT
MOST PROJECTS ARE AND AND SO
MOST PROJECTS HAVE USED
PREMIUMS.
SO UM RIGHT THERE WE ARE MAKING
IT EASIER.
THERE IS NO MAGIC FORMULA TO
UNLOCK MORE DEVELOPMENT.
WE ARE JUST RAISING THE BAR
SAYING THAT FOUR HUNDRED
PERCENT FOR EVERY RATIO IN THE
D1 CORE OR 200 PERCENT IN THE D
TO THAT'S NOT THE WE ARE
RAISING THE BAR AND WE ARE
RAISING IT TO KIND OF WHAT THE
DEVELOPMENTS ARE THAT USED
PREMIUMS.
SO WE ARE WE ARE RIGHT OFF
SAYING BIGGER IS BETTER, WE
WANT DENSITY AND WE'RE GOING TO
MAKE IT MUCH EASIER FOR YOU TO
DO THAT REGARDLESS OF YOUR USE
AND WE REMOVE THE BARRIERS.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO ACHIEVE TWO
POINTS IN AN OLD VERSION
OF LEAD AND YOU DON'T HAVE TO
PROVIDE AFFORDABLE HOUSING,
AFFORDABLE RESIDENTIAL IN YOUR
BUILDING.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO GET LEED
CERTIFICATION.
SO WE'VE WE'VE MADE IT JUST
PLAIN EASIER MUCH MORE
INTUITIVE.
SOMEONE CAN CALL UP AND SAY
I'VE GOT THIS ADDRESS AND I CAN
SAY WELL WHATEVER BUILDING YOU
CAN FIT UNDER MAYBE ONE HUNDRED
AND EIGHTY FEET OR MAYBE A
HUNDRED FIFTY FEET.
SO THAT'S WHAT WE ARE SAYING.
IT'S MAKING IT EASIER.
WE'RE PROBABLY GOING TO GET THE
SAME BUILDINGS IN THE END
SKYLINE WILL LOOK VERY SIMILAR.
IT'S MUCH EASIER TO EXPLAIN.
TELL ME YOUR ADDRESS.
I'LL TELL YOU YOUR ZONING
DISTRICT AND THIS IS YOUR BOX
THAT YOU CAN THAT YOU CAN BUILD
.
AND SO WE'VE REMOVED A LOT
OF THAT COMPLICATION.
WE WILL NOT BE GETTING ANY
AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CONTRIBUTIONS IN LIEU BECAUSE
THERE'S NO REQUIREMENT ANYMORE
RIGHT.
THEY WANT UNLESS THEY WOULD
LIKE EVEN TO EXCEED THE HEIGHT
BUT WE'VE MADE THE FIRST STEP
MUCH EASIER.
THERE'S STILL A SECOND STEP IF
THEY REALLY WANT TO GO BIG BUT
AND DOES THIS AT ALL.
YES.
AND CAN I ASK YOU ONE MORE
THING BECAUSE THIS I WAS SORT
OF AFRAID TO SAY BECAUSE I
THOUGHT I WAS WAY OFF BUT BASED
ON YOUR RESPONSE I DO THINK I
UNDERSTAND IT WELL, WHICH IS
THAT IN ORDER TO EVEN REACH THE
MAX HEIGHT THAT WAS ALLOWABLE
THEY WERE NEEDING PREMIUM'S
BECAUSE THEY ARE WAS CAPPED OR
OUR BASE F.R. WAS SO SMALL THAT
YOU JUST COULDN'T GO UP TO ONE
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY FEET UNLESS
YOU TOOK THAT YOU TOOK THE FFA
PREMIUM AND THEN YOU DIDN'T
ACTUALLY EVEN MAX OUT ON ALL
THAT FAR.
YOU COULD HAVE BECAUSE THE
HEIGHT CAPPED YOU RIGHT.
YEAH YEAH IT IS UNCLEAR THEY
DIDN'T MAX OUT JUST BECAUSE
THAT WAS THE DESIGN AND THEY
WERE VERY HAPPY WITH THAT OR IF
THEY WOULD HAVE LIKED TO GO TO
GO MORE BUT TO MEET OUR GOALS
OF MAKING IT MUCH EASIER BUT
KNOWING THERE YOU HAVE TO DRAW
A LINE IN THE SAND SOMEWHERE.
SO WE'RE THE HEIGHT LIMIT
REMAINS THE MACING A BUILDING
ARTICULATION, THE MODULES,
SETBACKS AND SO FORTH THEY
REMAIN YEAH BUT JUST THE THEN
THE ADDITIONAL LAYER WHAT'S THE
MAXIMUM MORE AREA.
RIGHT.
THAT'S BEEN SO TO ACHIEVE THE
MAXIMUM HEIGHT THAT HAS ALWAYS
BEEN THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT THEY NO
LONGER HAVE TO EXCESS PREMIUMS
FOR THE HIGH ON THE BOOKS FOR
THE HEIGHT THAT'S ON THE BOOKS.
RIGHT AND SHOULD THEY WANT TO
EXCEED THAT HEIGHT THEY CAN
THROUGH PREMIUMS BUT THE
PREMIUMS ARE THERE NO YEAH THE
CITY WANTS OUR PREMIUMS.
YEAH THEY'RE LABELED AS
EXCEPTIONS TO THE EXCEPTIONS
ELIMINATING OPTIONS LIMITS I
SUPPOSE ONE COULD IT'S ONE
COULD ONE COULD POSSIBLY WANT
BUT I WAS JUST GOING TO SAY ONE
DEFINITION OF IS ONE COULD CALL
IT A PREMIUM BUT IT'S NOT A
PREMIUM LEVEL WITH A CAPITAL P
ALL RIGHT IT IS A IT IS A
DIFFERENT IT'S A PREMIUM IT'S A
BONUS THAT YOU'RE GOING TO GIVE
UP SOMETHING THAT IS AGAINST
AFFORDABLE HEALTH, PROVIDE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FOR
SUSTAINABLE.
YOU HAVE TO GET THAT ADDITIONAL
EXCEPTION TO THE HIGH LIMIT FOR
THAT.
WE'RE NOT RECOMMENDING THAT BE
REMOVED THAT THAT STAYS ON THE
BOOKS.
RIGHT.
OK, I WILL I WILL CORRECT MY
SEMANTICS AND I DO THINK THAT I
UNDERSTAND IN PRINCIPLE FULLY
WHAT WE'VE DONE AND I I AGREE
WITH SOMETHING THAT
COMMISSIONER SAID LAST TIME
WHICH WAS WE'VE REALLY MADE
THIS A LOT EASIER TO GET EVEN
THE HEIGHT THAT WE WERE ALREADY
ALLOWING.
SO THAT'S GOOD.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THAT.
IT'S REALLY ANY OTHER COMMENTS
FOR DISCUSSION?
I JUST HAVE A QUESTION FOR
STAFF I NOTICED IN THE STAFF
REPORT UM URGING A QUICK
CONSIDERATION OF SECTION FIVE
POINT ONE EIGHT POINT FOUR
EXCEPTIONS TIGHT LIMITS AND I
NOTICED THAT IN THAT
RECOMMENDATION THIS ALL OF THE
KIND OF BUILT ELEMENTS THAT WE
MIGHT CONSIDER AND I WONDERED
BUT IT DOESN'T LIST A
CONSIDERATION OF THE
SUSTAINABLE AND AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DEVELOPMENT PART
OF THAT ORDINANCE AND I
WONDERED IF YOU COULD MAYBE
JUST SHARE WITH US A LITTLE BIT
ABOUT THE RATIONALE BEHIND THAT
.
UM, THE RATIONALE WOULD BE
BECAUSE IT HAS NOT COME IT HAS
NOT COME UP YET I HEARD TONIGHT
I THINK IT'S A GREAT IDEA.
OUR PLAN AS STAFF WAS TO WORK
WITH THE ORDINANCE REVISION
COMMITTEE AT THEIR AT THEIR
NEXT AVAILABLE MEETING WHICH
THEY HAVE A MEETING IN
SEPTEMBER THAT HAS BEEN BOOKED
AND THEY WILL BE MEETING AGAIN
IN NOVEMBER.
AND SO WE HAVE A DISCUSSION IN
NOVEMBER ABOUT THE DRAFT
LANGUAGE AND IT COULD COME UP
THERE SHOULD SHOULD IT BE
EXPANDED BECAUSE IT'S MORE
OF AN IDEA IT'S NOT A PROPOSED
AMENDMENT YET.
IT'S ALL ON THE TABLE.
THANK YOU.
AND JUST TO CLARIFY WHAT WE ARE
POTENTIALLY BRINGING TO OUR
CITY IS REMOVING THAT
MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT FROM THE
SITE CONSIDERATION SO THAT A
DEVELOPER DOESN'T GET PENALIZED
THAT'S AT THE TOP OF THE
BUILDING AND THEY'RE ALREADY AT
THE MAXIMUM HEIGHT AND SUCH
THEY'D HAVE TO TAKE OUT THE
FLOOR HOUSING OF THE STORY
OF HOUSING IN ORDER TO GET BACK
WITHIN THE REQUIREMENTS.
SO WE'RE LOOKING TO NOT YEAH
THAT IS THAT WHAT WE'RE LOOKING
AT NOW ASK THE QUESTION THAT
WAY, SIR.
CORRECT.
YEAH.
ANY OTHER COMMENTS?
I THINK WE'RE READY FOR A ROLL
CALL THE
UM I'M SORRY
HOUSEKEEPING COMMISSIONER.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
YES MR WHITE.
YES MR HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES COMMISSIONER.
THIS YES COMMISSIONER.
YES COMMISSIONER MILT'S YES AND
COMMISSIONER.
WETHERBEE YES.
THERE ARE FIVE AFFIRMATIVE
VOTES THE MOTION CARRIES THANK
YOU.
THAT'S SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN.
THE MOTION STILL CARRIES SOME.
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE A BRIEF
PAUSE TO WELCOME COMMISSIONER
LEIGH AND COMMISSIONER SAUV
BACK TO THE CHAMBER.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
APPRECIATE IT.
THANKS
.
I SAW A FLASH.
OH, THAT'S MATT
.
I PROPOSED MAYBE A ONE OR TWO
MINUTE BREAK.
ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE GOING TO
NO
BREAK
RIGHT
?
YES.
ALL RIGHT.
I'M BACK.
SO WE WILL MOVE ON TO OH, THANK
YOU.
YES, ALL RIGHT.
WE'RE MOVING OUT TO SECTION
NINE B REGULAR BUSINESS THIS IS
THIRTY FIVE TWENTY THREE IN
COURT A PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT TAX AMENDMENT FOR
CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
THE PROPOSED AMENDED
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS WILL
EXPAND THE PERMITTED PRINCIPAL
USES OF THE PUDI THAT'S
PLANNING UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
THE PERMITTED PRINCIPAL USES
WOULD ADD MEDICAL AND DENTAL
OFFICES, EXPAND THE DEFINITION
OF HOTEL AND WOULD PERMIT
DEVELOPMENT OF MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL HOUSING WHICH IS
CURRENTLY EXCLUDED AS PUDI
DISTRICT INCLUDES THIRTY FIVE
POINT TWO SIX ACRES STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS APPROVAL AND
SO WE WILL MOVE ON TO
PETITIONER PRESENTATION
.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING MR. CHAIRMAN AND
COMMISSIONERS.
IT'S A PLEASURE TO BE HERE
TONIGHT.
MY NAME IS DAVID COLBOURNE.
I'M WITH VARNUM LLP AND WE'RE
COUNSEL FOR THE APPLICANT
ALTARUM INSTITUTE.
WITH ME TODAY IS MISS TRACY, A
LAWYER WHO IS TERMS GENERAL
COUNSEL AND JOINING US VIA
ZOOME, OUR MISS ANNIE STERN,
THE CFO AND MR. ANTZ AND
BERLE'S HANDLES THE PARALEGAL
IN TRACY'S OFFICE.
SO WE'RE HERE TODAY TO TALK
ABOUT REVISIONS TO THE IR MPD
IF YOU'RE INTERESTED.
I WAS THAT ACRONYM ERUM COMES
FROM THE FORM NAME OF ALTARUM
WHICH WAS THE ENVIRONMENTAL
RESEARCH INSTITUTE OF MICHIGAN
AND IT WAS THE OWNER OF THE PD
WHEN IT WAS PROPERTY WHEN IT
WAS ESTABLISHED IN 1898 HOW WE
GOT HERE TONIGHT IS THAT WE
WELL FIRST I WANT TO THANK YOU
AND YOUR STAFF WHO HAVE BEEN
INCREDIBLY HELPFUL THROUGHOUT
THE PROCESS AND REALLY
AVAILABLE AND REALLY
RESPONSIVE.
SO I WANT TO I WANT TO THANK
THEM.
BUT WE STARTED WITH MATT LAST
YEAR.
WE APPEARED BEFORE THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IN OCTOBER OF LAST
YEAR.
WE PRESENTED THE THE PROJECT
THAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
TONIGHT SUBSEQUENT TO THAT
MEETING THERE WAS A CITIZEN
PARTICIPATION MEETING THAT WAS
ON MAY TWO.
THERE WERE SIX HUNDRED AND
FIFTY ONE RESIDENTS THAT
RECEIVED THE NOTICE OF THAT
HEARING AND THERE WERE ONLY
THREE ATTENDEES, ONE OF WHICH
WAS A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE
PARCELS HASN'T BEEN A TON
OF NEIGHBOR INVOLVEMENT.
THERE WERE A COUPLE OF COMMENTS
THAT WERE RECEIVED.
THOSE COMMENTS WERE GENERALLY
IN THE NATURE OF QUESTIONS
ABOUT THE PROPOSED USE OF THE
VACANT PROPERTY IN THE PD AND
THEN FOLLOWING THAT MEETING WE
FINALIZED THE APPLICATION WE
SUBMITTED THAT TO STAFF FOR
REVIEW IN JUNE AND SOME STAFF
THAT REVIEW SUGGESTED A FEW
MINOR CHANGES AND SUBSEQUENTLY
THIS MEETING WAS NOTICED.
AND SO WITH THAT LET'S JUMP
INTO QUICKLY A VERY BRIEF
OVERVIEW OF THE PROJECT THE
PROJECT IS IN THE RED BOX
THAT'S SHOWN HERE.
IT'S NORTHEASTERLY OF DOWNTOWN
ANN ARBOR AND NORTHEAST REALLY
OF THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN'S
NORTH CAMPUS SITE PLEASE.
THANK YOU.
IT'S DOING IT FURTHER.
IT'S LOCATED BETWEEN GREEN ROAD
AND US TWENTY THREE JUST SOUTH
OF PLYMOUTH ROAD.
IT'S GENERALLY SURROUNDED BY
COMMERCIAL AND MULTIFAMILY
PROPERTIES ON THE S COMMERCIAL
IN THE NORTH EXLINE THE ZOOMING
IN ALL THE WAY WE SEE THERE'S
FIVE PARCELS ON THE PAD.
IT COMPRISES A TOTAL OF THIRTY
FIVE POINT TWO SIX ACRES IN
EACH OF THOSE PARCELS AS
OUTLINED HERE BY AND THEN
HERE'S HERE'S A GOOD VIEW
OF SORT OF THE CURRENT
CONDITIONS AT THE SITE FOR THE
PARCELS ARE PRESENTLY USED FOR
EXTENDED STAY HOTEL AND
COMMERCIAL OFFICE PURPOSES.
ALTARUM OWNS ONE OF THOSE
COMMERCIAL OFFICE PROPERTIES.
IT'S KIND OF THE BOTTOM LEFT
PROPERTY AND IT ALSO OWNS THE
REMAINING VACANT LOT WHICH IS A
SEVEN ONE SIX ACRE PROPERTY IN
THE TOP LEFT THERE OF THE
PICTURE.
WE ARE NOT PRESENTING A SITE
PLAN FOR THAT VACANT PARCEL
TONIGHT.
INSTEAD WE'RE JUST PROPOSING
SOME TAX PROVISIONS TO THE
SUBMENTAL REGULATIONS THOSE
HAVE BEEN REVIEWED BY STAFF AND
I'LL QUICKLY EXPOSE EXPLAIN
THOSE CHANGES NOW NEXT SLIDE
PLEASE.
MATT.
FIRST THE CHANGES WOULD ALLOW
MEDICAL AND DENTAL OFFICE USES
IN ADDITION TO GENERAL OFFICE
USES HOTELS IN ADDITION TO
EXTENDED STAY HOTELS AND
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL USES.
WE BELIEVE THAT THESE USES ARE
CONSISTENT WITH THE CHARACTER
OF THE AREA COMPATIBLE WITH THE
OTHER USES SURROUNDING THE PD
INCLUDING THE MULTIFAMILY THAT
I MENTIONED TO THE SOUTH
EARLIER.
AND WE THINK THAT INCORPORATING
MEDICAL DENTAL PROFESSIONAL
OFFICE USERS ALONG WITH GENERAL
OFFICE USERS IS MUCH MORE
CONSISTENT WITH YOUR CURRENT
UDC WHICH OF COURSE DOES ALLOW
THOSE SORTS OF PROFESSIONAL
OFFICES IN GENERAL OFFICE IN
THE GENERAL OFFICE DISTRICT.
NEXT SLIDE IN CONNECTION WITH
THESE EXPANDED USES WHICH WILL
ALLOW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING.
WE'VE HEARD OF COURSE THAT THE
PROVISION OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
IS IMPORTANT TO THE CITY.
WE STUDIED THE UDC AND WE NOTED
THAT I WAS SHOWN HERE.
THE UDC REQUIRES THAT IF THE
BAR IS BETWEEN SEVENTY FIVE AND
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT THEN 10
PERCENT OF THE TOTAL DWELLING
UNITS MUST BE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DWELLING UNITS AND IF
THE FOUR IS MORE THAN A HUNDRED
PERCENT THEN 15 PERCENT OF THE
DWELLING IN THIS MUST BE
AFFORDABLE IN OUR PROPOSED
SUBMENTAL REGULATIONS WOULD
INCREASE THOSE FIGURES FROM 10
AND 15 PERCENT RESPECTIVELY TO
15 AND 20 PERCENT RESPECTIVELY
WHICH PROVIDES A
PUBLIC
BENEFIT.
AND ALTHOUGH NOT NOTED HERE,
THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
WOULD ALLOW THAT REQUIREMENT TO
BE SATISFIED BY PAYMENT
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
CONTRIBUTION CONSISTENT WITH
THE FORMULA THAT IS ESTABLISHED
BY THE CITY COUNCIL RESOLUTION
ANNUALLY OR BY A COMBINATION
OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING UNITS AND
A CONTRIBUTION.
SO TO CLARIFY, WE'RE PROPOSING
TO PROVIDE FIVE PERCENT MORE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAN IS
REQUIRED BY ORDINANCE NEXT
LINE.
AND FINALLY THE PROPOSED CHECKS
TAX CHANGES WOULD INCORPORATE
THE CITY'S MORE CURRENT
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS RELATIVE
TO THINGS LIKE LANDSCAPING,
LIGHTING AND PARKING AND ALSO
INCREASE THE PERMITTED FOR THE
RATIO SUBJECT TO THE AFFORDABLE
HOUSING REQUIREMENT THAT I JUST
MENTIONED AN EXAMPLE OF THOSE
MORE CUTS STANDARDS IS THE
CITIES IS THAT THE CITY ZONING
ORDINANCE NOW REQUIRES DOWN
DIRECTED OR SO-CALLED THAT DARK
SKIES TYPE LIGHTING TO HELP
PREVENT LIGHT POLLUTION AND
THOSE SORTS OF PROVISIONS ARE
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE TO
THE UDC.
MANY OF THESE CHANGES WERE
SUGGESTED BY STAFF HELPFULLY WE
AGREE THAT THESE SORTS OF YOU
KNOW, PRIMARILY DIMENSIONAL AND
SORT OF YOU KNOW, CONSTRUCTION
GUIDELINES WILL HELP TO ENSURE
THAT THE PROPERTY IS CONSISTENT
WITH YOUR CURRENT ZONING
ORDINANCE AND THAT THE PROPERTY
NOT UNDER UTILIZED.
SO TO CONCLUDE OBVIOUSLY THAT A
LOT OF CHANGES SOCIETAL AND
DEMOGRAPHIC SINCE THIS CITY WAS
INITIALLY ESTABLISHED IN
NINETEEN NINETY EIGHT, IT'S
RESULTED FOR THE NEED
OF DIFFERENT TYPES
OF DEVELOPMENT CHANGES IN THE
WAY THAT DEVELOPMENT IS DONE IN
THE CITY.
THERE'S OBVIOUSLY NOW MUCH MORE
EMPHASIS ON CREATING A WALKABLE
AND VIABLE COMMUNITY THAN WAS
THE CASE IN 1990 EIGHT AND
OF COURSE THE PROPER
UTILIZATION OF INFILL PROPERTY
TO PREVENT SPRAWL IS IS IS MUCH
MORE HIGHLIGHTED NOW THAN IT
WAS PREVIOUSLY.
WE BELIEVE THAT THESE PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS WILL BRING THE BODY
LANGUAGE UP TO THE STATE OF THE
ART, MAKE THE PROPERTY MORE
USEFUL TO MEET THE CURRENT
NEEDS OF THE CITY AND TO ENSURE
GOOD AND EFFICIENT DEVELOPMENT
IN THE PUDI WE ARE ALSO PLEASED
TO SEE THAT STAFF SUPPORTS
THESE CHANGES AND SO FOR ALL
THESE REASONS WE ASKED FOR YOUR
RECOMMENDATIONS RECOMMENDATION
TO THE CITY COUNCIL IN FAVOR
OF THESE CHANGES TONIGHT AND
TRACY WILL BE HERE TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS YOU HAVE.
THANK YOU.
AND NOW WE WILL GO ON TO STAFF
PRESENTATION.
MR. KOWALSKI, GOOD EVENING.
OK, SO OFFICIALLY DID A GOOD
JOB OF SUMMARIZING UP REALLY
THE BASIS OF WHY THEY'RE HERE
TONIGHT.
SO AS I INDICATED, IT REALLY
STARTED WITH A REQUEST TO ADD A
MULTIFAMILY YOUTH TO THESE TO
THE DISTRICT.
AND AGAIN, I WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT IT'S CLEAR THAT WE ARE
TALKING ABOUT THE THE ENTIRE
DISTRICT SEE ON THE SCREEN
HERE.
SO AGAIN, I MEAN WE TEND TO
MAYBE FOCUS A LITTLE BIT MORE
ON THE VACANT PARCEL BECAUSE
THAT'S OBVIOUSLY MOST LIKELY
THE NEXT ONE THAT WOULD
PROBABLY BE DEVELOPED.
HOWEVER, THESE REGULATIONS DO
APPLY TO ALL OF THE PROPERTIES
WITHIN THE DISTRICT.
SO AGAIN, IT'S MULTICAM WITH
SPECIFICALLY EXCLUDED FROM
THERE.
IT WAS IT WAS ONE OF OUR
EARLIEST PARTIES.
IT HAS A REALLY INTERESTING MIX
OF USES THAT MANY OF WHICH WE
KEPT BECAUSE I THINK ONE OF THE
BENEFITS OF THIS IS REALLY
DIVERSE MIX OF USES THAT WE
DON'T HAVE ANYWHERE ELSE.
I MEAN THERE'S LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
THAT'S ALLOWED HERE IF YOU READ
THE EXISTS YOU KNOW, CRAFT
MANUFACTURE IT SAYS LIKE GLASS
MAKING THERE'S REALLY IT'S I
GUESS I'VE NEVER QUITE SEEN ONE
IN ALL USES.
LIKE I SAID, WE'RE KIND
OF QUASI MANUFACTURING AND
THINGS SO WE WOULDN'T ALLOW
THOSE WITH ANY OTHER TYPICALLY
WITH RESIDENTIAL TYPE USES AND
I DON'T KNOW WHY EXACTLY THAT
WAS PUT IN THERE FROM THE
BEGINNING LIKE YOUR MIKE.
NO, I MOVED A LITTLE CLOSER.
I THINK YOU THANK YOU.
THANK YOU DAVID.
MY GLASS IS SO EXCITING.
SO AGAIN A DIVERSE BIT
OF USAGE.
SO THAT'S THAT GOES TO ONE
OF THE PUBLIC BENEFITS WE ALSO
FOUND IS THAT THAT WAS THE
REASON WHY WE PRESERVE THOSE
USES ALTHOUGH THEY'RE NOT
REALLY BEING UTILIZED NOW
THAT'S TRULY SOMETHING THAT YOU
NEED THAT WE DON'T HAVE ANOTHER
USES WITH RESIDENTIAL AND
OFFICE AGAIN THINGS THAT WERE
EXCLUDED LIKE MEDICAL DENTAL
OFFICES I DON'T SEE ANY REASON
WHY WE WOULD EXCLUDE THOSE
GOING FORWARD.
IT HAD OTHER UNIQUE EXTENDED
STAY HOTEL AGAIN TO OTHER
HOTELS.
THE HOTEL THAT DOESN'T REALLY
MATTER.
AND THEN THERE ARE NUMEROUS
OTHER ITEMS THAT WERE IN THE
PREVIOUS SUPPLEMENTAL REGS THAT
AGAIN WE DON'T WE DON'T HAVE
THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGS CURRENTLY
NOWADAYS THESE WERE MANY OF THE
REQUIREMENTS THAT WERE
TYPICALLY MALENKO THINGS
REGARDING LANDSCAPE OFFERING
ACCESS.
THERE IS OTHER ITEMS LIKE THAT
THE AND ALSO THERE ARE SOME
DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR THINGS
THAT WERE A LITTLE BIT MORE
VAGUE THAT WOULD BE BASICALLY
IMPOSSIBLE FOR STAFF TO ENFORCE
AND THINGS LIKE THE NEW
BUSINESS PLAN THERE HAVE TO
MEET THE COMMON THEME OF THE
DISTRICT.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT IS.
SO WE REMOVED A LOT OF NON
SUBSIDIES WHAT WE WOULD CALL
AND HOPEFULLY THE COMMISSION
AGREES ARE YOU GOING TO DO HERE
WHICH AGAIN ARE UNENFORCEABLE
AT THE END OF THE DAY WE'VE
ALSO TRIED TO BRING IT UP AS
WAS MENTIONED TO SOME OF OUR
CURRENT STANDARDS.
YOU KNOW, REMOVING THERE'S
THERE'S NO PARKING MINIMUM.
THERE IS A PARKING MAXIMUM
THERE AGAIN UPDATING SOME
OF THE USES WITHIN THERE.
LET ME THE FAA LIMIT AGAIN WAS
WAS LIFTED.
THAT WAS ALSO KIND OF A COMMENT
FROM PLANNING COMMISSION
INITIALLY WHEN WE PRESENTED
THIS BACK AS A PREPARED CONCEPT
MEETING WAS A COMMENT REGARDING
THE FAA AS WELL AS THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT AS YOU KNOW NOW
AFFORDABLE HOUSING IS A
REQUIREMENT IN THE PARTY.
HOWEVER, THE PETITIONERS HAVE
OFFERED TO GO ABOVE AND BEYOND
THAT TO INCREASE THE PRE AND
INCREASE THE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
WITHIN THE PARTY AND AGAIN THAT
WOULD AFFECT ANY THAT WOULD
AFFECT ANY PERSON WHAT'S BEING
DEVELOPED WITHIN THE DISTRICT
AND THAT WOULD BE ABOVE THE
BASE OF SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT.
SO AGAIN CURRENTLY LIKE
EXISTING PADS AND THE REASON
ARE THE SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT
WAS CHOSEN THAT WAS THE
ORIGINAL WE FLIP ALL THE WAY
BACK THROUGH THE ORIGINAL
ZONING IT WAS AN ALL OUT TYPE
ZONING BACK THEN SO OFFICE
RESEARCH LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
BASICALLY AND THAT WAS THE
ORIGINAL LIMIT.
WHAT'S IN THE DISTRICT NOW IS
FORTY PERCENT WHICH I MEAN I
THINK MOST OF US FEELS PRETTY
LOW FOR PERSONS WITHIN THE YOU
KNOW THE CITY.
SO WE'VE OBVIOUSLY REDUCED OR
ELIMINATED THAT THE HEIGHT
LIMIT HAS BEEN INCREASED A
LITTLE BIT FROM FOUR STORIES TO
FIVE STORIES.
SIXTY FIVE FEET SO PREVIOUSLY
FOUR STORIES AND FIFTY FEET NOW
TO FIVE AND SIXTY FIVE.
I MENTIONED THE ISSUE WITH THE
HOTEL.
ALL HOTELS ARE NOW PERMITTED.
WE DID ADD AGAIN WORKING WITH
THE PETITIONER OR SOMETHING
THAT STAFF KIND OF OFFERED THE
PETITIONER AGREED TO KIND
OF ADD IN AS AN ACCESSORY
RETAIL TYPE OF USE TRULY AS AN
ACCESSORY USE.
IT'S WRITTEN IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
I THINK WE HAVE A 10 PERCENT
AND UP TO A TWELVE THOUSAND
SQUARE LIMIT AS AN ACCESSORY
USE TO ANY BUILDING AND I
BELIEVE THAT COVER IS REALLY
THE SUBSTANTIAL CHANGES.
ONE OTHER THING I KNOW THAT WAS
MENTIONED BY A PUBLIC COMMENTER
EARLIER AND ONE OF THE
COMMUNICATIONS THROUGH EMAIL
WAS THE ISSUE REGARDING CURB
CUTS.
THE PUDI DOES HAVE A
RESTRICTION ANALYSIS TO ACCESS
POINTS TO GREEN ROAD AND THAT'S
WHAT'S THERE NOW.
SO WE DIDN'T CHANGE THAT AND
THAT AGAIN IS THE DISTRICT.
IT'S NOT JUST THESE PARCELS
THAT SO BASICALLY THEY COULD
MAYBE MOVE A KIRKY BUT THEY
CAN'T THEY'RE NOT ALLOWED
ANOTHER CREWCUT DIRECTLY TO
GREEN AND OTHER THINGS WERE SET
BACKS.
WE DID BRING THIS UP AT THE
SETBACKS IN PARTICULAR INTO
INTO BASICALLY TO ALIGN WITH
SOME OF OUR CURRENT STANDARDS.
WE'VE DESIGNED THIS MUCH LIKE
THE OFFICE DISTRICT.
SOME OF THE STANDARDS THAT I
LOOKED AT REGARDING THE
SETBACKS WERE THAT BACKS THAT
ARE SIMILAR IN THE OFFICE
DISTRICTS AS WELL.
SO THE 15 UP FRONT SET BACK AS
WELL AS THE HEIGHT THE HEIGHT
IS ALSO CONSISTENT WITH THE
OFFICE DISTRICT AND I BELIEVE
THAT SUMMARIZES UP THE CHANGES
AND OF COURSE I WILL BE
AVAILABLE FOR ANY QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, MR. KOWALSKI.
WE'RE MOVING ON TO A PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE PROPOSED
THIRTY FIVE TWENTY GREENE ROAD
PUDI TAX AMENDMENT OR FIRST
CALL ON INDIVIDUAL PRESENT TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION THEN
REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK
DURING THIS PUBLIC HEARING
REMOTELY PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE
OR POSSIBLY STAR SIX IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
PHRASE HAND FEATURE IF GOING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE CALL 877 EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN
AND ENTER MEDIA NINETY NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL SELECT CALLERS
WHO'VE RAISED HER HAND USING
THE LAST THREE DIGITS OF THEIR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
BUT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO
SPEAK AND WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE
MOVE TO A QUIET AREA MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND THOSE
NOISES SO THAT WE MAY HEAR YOU
CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME ADDRESS
AT THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
?
MR. CARD OF COURSE ACTUALLY
FULL TIME HAS AN INTERESTING
HISTORY AS MR. CALLER MENTIONED
THAT CAME OUT OF IN THE
ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH
INSTITUTE OF MICHIGAN WHICH WAS
JUST NAMED THIS WAS AND I WAS
BIGGEST MILITARY CONTRACTOR IN
THE 70S AND 80S AND WAS A
TARGET OF VIETNAM PROTESTERS.
ONE WAS CALLED THE WELL RUN
LABS IN THE SIXTIES IN THE LATE
90S AND CREATED A FOR HALF AN
HOUR LATER BECAME PART
OF GENERAL DYNAMICS.
THEY PRETTY MUCH MOVED AWAY
WILL BE NONPROFIT.
HE BROUGHT ANOTHER LOCAL
MILITARY CONTRACTOR VECTOR
RESEARCH RENAMED ITSELF ALTARUM
AND NOW THAT HEALTH CARE
RESEARCH MOSTLY FOR THE
GOVERNMENT NO CLASSIFIED
MILITARY RESEARCH ANYMORE AS
FAR AS I KNOW.
SO THERE'S FUTURE FUNDING FOR
THE COMPANIES IN SEVEN POINT
TWO ACRE PARCEL AND GREEN.
RHODE ISLAND OBVIOUSLY WANTS
MORE FLEXIBILITY FOR THE PARCEL
AND MAYBE FOR OTHER PARTS
SITE
WHICH IF YOU ARE LOOKING AT THE
AERIAL RENDERINGS THAT
RESEMBLES A SEA OF PARKING WITH
THREE BUILDINGS ON IT EXCEPT
FOR THE SEVENTY SEVEN POINT TWO
VACANT ACRES AND THAT WOULD BE
NICE TO HAVE MULTIFAMILY
HOUSING SEVEN POINT TWO ACRES
AND THIS WILL ALLOW FOR THAT.
BUT THERE'S NO GUARANTEE THAT
THAT'S WHAT THE EVENTUAL BUYER
IS GOING TO BUILD AT 10:00
TONIGHT, NEW PUBLIC MATTER
OF FACT A SLIGHT INCREASE IN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING REGARDING
THE NEED FOR ABOUT MAXIMUMS ARE
THE SAME AS IN DC.
THESE COULD BE ESPECIALLY IF
OUR COUNTRY IS WILLING TO OPEN
UP A NEW DEVELOPMENT.
SOME OF THE AMOUNT OF PARKING
ALREADY ON THE SITE BUT MORE
IMPORTANTLY PART OF THE ENERGY
EFFICIENCY THAT I ALREADY HAVE
MENTIONED AD NAUSEUM IT IS
ASSUMES THAT ALL NEW BUILDINGS
HAVE TO BE NATURAL ENERGY
INCLUDING NO GAS CONNECTIONS
BEGINNING IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO.
THAT'S RIGHT.
THAT STANDARD INTO THIS
ORDINANCE OUR OBJECT THAT
THAT'S THE LIMIT RATHER THAN
EXPAND THE POOL OF POTENTIAL
BUYERS OF THEIR SEVEN POINT TWO
ACRES AND THEY MAY BE RIGHT BUT
I WOULDN'T SAY THAT WE GET A
BUYER WILLING TO GO ACCORDING
TO OUR COMMUNITY STANDARDS
WHICH HAVE FORMALLY ADOPTED BY
OUR CITY COUNCIL STILL GOT
THIRTY SECONDS.
YEAH, ABOUT PD IN GENERAL.
I THINK IT'S REALLY A POSITIVE
COMMENT THAT THIS COMMUNITY AND
THIS COMMUNITY DEVELOPERS ARE
NOW AND I REALIZE WHAT A PITY
THEY HAVE TO GO ELECTRIC.
WE'RE SEEING THAT TIME AND TIME
AGAIN.
I THINK IT'S IT'S JUST BECOME
STANDARD.
I DON'T KNOW WHY THIS SHOULD BE
AN EXCEPTION AND AND YEAH,
THAT'S PRETTY MUCH IT.
IT'S HARD TO SORRY TO MUDDY THE
WATERS.
SO BE IT.
THANK YOU.
MR. GARBER, IS THERE ANYONE
PRESENT THAT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK SEEING NO ONE IS THERE
ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION REMOTELY
?
NO CALLERS OR ATTENDEES HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
I SEE NO ONE SPEAKING REMOTELY.
WE WILL MOVE TO THE PROMOTE THE
PROPOSED MOTION.
THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
HEREBY RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
THE INTERIM ERISA THIRTY THIRTY
FIVE TWENTY GREEN CORP PLAN
UNIT DEVELOPMENT ZONING TEXT
AMENDMENT MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
WHITES AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DIS.
WE'RE IN DISCUSSION WITH ANYONE
LIKE THE KICK US OFF ACQUISTION
.
I'LL DO A QUICK SMALL ONE IF WE
CAN BRING BACK UP THE
PRESENTATION MR. CROSS AND THEN
GO TO THE SLIDE THAT SHOWED THE
EXISTING REGULATIONS AND THEN
THE PROPOSED AND I THINK IT WAS
THE SECOND IN THAT SEQUENCE YOU
.
YES SIR.
AND THAT IF YOU COULD PUT THAT
UP BECAUSE I CAN'T ACTUALLY SEE
IT ON MY SCREEN BECAUSE THE
VIEWERS BLOCK IT.
I DON'T KNOW WHY THAT THAT'S
OK.
WELL SORRY.
GO YOU GO THERE.
YEAH NO WELL IT'S UNDER NO
MINIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT
REQUIREMENTS.
IS THERE ANYTHING BEYOND
REQUIREMENTS WE'RE WAY RIGHT
NOW IT HAS A TWO STORY MINIMUM
THERE ACTUALLY IS A BUILDING
HEIGHT REQUIREMENT.
I KNOW THE MINIMUM BUILDING
HEIGHT REQUIREMENT I GUESS SO
THERE'S NO THERE'S NO
ADDITIONAL WORDS AFTER THAT.
CORRECT.
OKAY GREAT.
SO THAT I WANT TO START THERE
WITH MY QUESTION AND I DON'T
KNOW WHAT JUST HAPPENED.
I ASK YOU TO DO THAT BUT IT HAS
NOW GOTTEN WORSE.
WAS WELL THAT WASN'T I THINK HE
WAS TRYING TO SOLVE OUR OUR
VISUAL PROBLEM NOW WE CAN SEE
OURSELVES AND NOTHING ELSE
WHICH IS OK.
WHY WHAT ARE WE PROPOSING OR
DID STAFF HAVE A CONVERSATION
WITH THE PETITIONER?
OH THAT'S MUCH BETTER THANK
YOU.
YES.
TO REMOVE THE MINIMUM BUILDING
HEIGHT REQUIREMENT BECAUSE THIS
MEANS AND THE WHOLE PARCEL IF
THEY WERE TO TEAR DOWN ANY
BUILDING AND RECONSTRUCT THEY
COULD RECONSTRUCT A SINGLE
STOREY BUILDING WHICH ONE IS
COMING TO THIS AREA THAT WOULD
BE SORT OF OUT OF SCOPE.
SO IT IS THERE ARE A RATIONALE
FOR WHY WE WOULD REMOVE THE TWO
STOREY MINIMUM WHICH IS PRESENT
AND ONE FROM THIS PVD SINCE IT
ALREADY EXISTS AND WOULD MATCH
THE DISTRICT THAT'S COMING.
WHY WOULD DEFER TO THE
PETITIONER?
I WANT THAT ONE.
I WANT TO START WITH YOU.
I, I, I THINK A TWO STORY
MINIMUM IS OK AT THAT LOCATION
.
I KNOW THAT THEY SHOULD REVISE
THAT TO BE THE ONE STORY.
I DON'T THINK THAT WAS A STRONG
DISCUSSION POINT AT THE TIME.
NO, I THINK THAT THAT WAS NOT
SOMETHING THAT WAS PARTICULARLY
IMPORTANT.
I THINK THAT MY STRONG
SUSPICION IS THAT WHATEVER
HAPPENS HERE IS GOING TO BE
MULTISTORY TRYING TO FACILITATE
THE USE OF THE PROPERTY THAT'S
NOT A REQUIREMENT OF THE TUDI.
I APPRECIATE WHAT YOU'RE SAYING
US WE WRITE IT IN SOMEONE WILL
COME IN AND SAY I CAN BUILD A
SINGLE STORY AND THE PD WILL
PERMIT IT AND THERE IS NOTHING
WE CAN DO TO PREVENT THAT.
YEAH, I THINK I THINK THAT
ELECTION IS THAT MIGHT HAVE
BEEN SOMETHING THAT WAS
SUGGESTED TO KIND OF JUST GET
RID OF A LOT OF OLD LANGUAGE
BUT YEAH COULD HAVE BEEN BUT I
THINK OVERALL WE WOULD START
DOES SUPPORT THE TWO STORY
MINIMUM AND I WOULD LOOK TO THE
PETITIONER THAT'S SOMETHING WE
CAN AMEND HERE IF IT WAS OK.
OBVIOUSLY THIS HAS TO GO TO
COUNCIL SO WE HAVE ABILITY TO
MAKE AMENDMENTS IF IT'S
AGREEABLE.
I MEAN I DON'T THINK THE ONE
THAT WAS DISCUSSED BRIEFLY WITH
THE PETITIONER ABOUT GOING TO
THE TCN DISTRICT INSTEAD OF A
CITY SO BUT AGAIN THE CITY HAS
DIFFERENT ADVANTAGES WITH IT.
SO YES, THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
THE COMMISSION COULD CERTAINLY
GET BEHIND AND RECOMMEND AT
THIS POINT.
DO I NEED TO MAKE A FORMAL
MOTION TO STRIKE THE NO MINIMUM
HEIGHT EXCUSE ME BUILDING
HEIGHT REQUIREMENT?
I DON'T THINK SO.
I DON'T THINK YOU NEED TO MAKE
A FORMAL MOTION.
WE CAN GO WITH THAT AS A I MEAN
YOU CAN MAKE IT EASIER TO WE AT
THE TABLE, CORRECT?
YEAH.
SEEMS LIKE A BIT AT THE TABLE
GENERALLY FRIENDLY.
OK OK OK ALL RIGHT OK WE CAN
CERTAINLY START THAT THAT ITEM
WILL BE AMENDED.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER FABENS.
WELL WE HAVE THIS UP I THINK
THAT THERE MIGHT BE A
DISCREPANCY BETWEEN WHAT I'M
READING IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGS AND WHAT I SEE ON THE
SLIDES.
I WANT SOME CLARIFICATION ON
THE SLIDE.
IT SAYS FRONT STEP BACK TWENTY
FIVE FEET FROM THE EDGE
OF GREEN ROAD I DID NOTICE THAT
IT IS FIFTEEN IN THE DOCUMENT
AND IT SAYS SALVAGE THE SLIDE
SAYS TWENTY FIVE FEET ALONG THE
SOUTH PROPERTY BOUNDARY AND THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGS SAY THIRTY.
YES THAT'S WHAT I GET.
I WOULD I DON'T KNOW IF WE DID
HAVE THE FIFTEEN HAS BEEN IN
THERE FOR A WHILE SO BOTH
OF THOSE I THINK IT MAY HAVE
JUST BEEN A TYPO AND AGAIN
UNLESS THE PETITIONER DISAGREES
I THINK THAT THE SUPPLEMENTAL
REGULATIONS IS WHAT YOU GUYS
HAVE REVIEWED AND AGREED TO.
SO I THINK THE PRESENTATION IS
I AGREE THAT'S THAT'S ENTIRELY
MY FAULT.
I APOLOGIZE.
GOOD.
I WAS GOOD.
I THINK I APPRECIATE THAT.
YES.
BUT THANK YOU.
THANKS.
THE SLIDE IS WRONG.
THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGS DOCUMENT
IS CORRECT.
CORRECT.
YES.
THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGS OR
SOMETHING THAT HAS REVIEWED
PREVIOUSLY.
CORRECT.
THANK YOU.
PRONOUNCED AND TO CLARIFY IT'S
15 FEET CORRECT?
YES.
IT'S IN THE SUPPLEMENTAL REGS
RIGHT NOW.
THAT'S WHAT WE BOTH CONSISTENT
WITH THE OFFICE DISTRICT.
THAT'S WHY WE WENT TO THAT.
NO GOTCHA.
AND AS A POINT OF CLARIFICATION
SIDE SAT BACK IS THIRTY FEET.
SO JUST LIKE ANY OTHER
COMMISSIONERS, COMMISSIONER
HAMMARSTEDT TWO THINGS QUICKLY
TO START BUT I ONLY SEE ONE
WHERE THE TWO IS THE NORTH ONE
ON YOUR BLOCK.
YES THAT IS ON THE RIGHT HAND
SIDE.
YES, YES YEAH.
THE LINE DOESN'T QUITE GO THAT
FAR RIGHT BUT THE PROPERTY LINE
GOES THROUGH MIDDLE GROUND.
OK, I THOUGHT I WAS READING
SOMETHING IN HERE THAT THERE'S
MAYBE NOT IN THERE IN SOMEWHERE
THAT THAT WAS LIKE SOME SORT
OF EASEMENT BUT YES THERE IS AN
EASEMENT THAT GOES BACK TO THE
HOTELS BEHIND THEIR BACK THERE
IS BECAUSE THERE'S THERE'S
ADJACENT ACCESS TO ALL OF THESE
OTHER THERE'S A COUPLE
OF HOTELS INCLUDING A HOTEL
THAT'S OFF OF PLYMOUTH.
YEAH, I SEE THE HOLIDAY BUT I
DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS NOW.
YEAH, I DON'T REMEMBER.
SO THAT'S MY SCORECARDS NO MORE
KIRKBRIDE CIGARILLO VINEGAR.
THAT'S IT.
SINCE THIS IS A BEAUTY AND A
FEW DAYS YOU KNOW WE TALK ABOUT
PUBLIC BENEFITS SINCE THIS IS
AN EXISTING BEAUTY BUT WE'RE
AMENDING THE BEAUTY DO WE STILL
NEED TO ANALYZE THIS IN TERMS
OF PUBLIC BENEFITS?
YES, ABSOLUTELY BECAUSE YOU'RE
STILL YOU'RE STILL REHABBING
BUT YOU'RE STILL REAUTHORIZING
THE PRE TO THE STANDARDS
OF TODAY.
YEAH.
WHICH IS WHY WE'VE TRIED TO
HIGHLIGHT CERTAIN BENEFITS THAT
WE'VE CALLED OUT.
BUT YES, THAT'S ABSOLUTELY
CORRECT.
I MEAN I FULLY SUPPORT MORE
DEVELOPMENT ON THIS SITE.
I LIVE RIGHT HERE.
I THINK IT WOULD BE GREAT FOR
MORE RESIDENTIAL MORE ANYTHING
I WOULD LOVE TO SEE IT MORE
LIKE TAKE ONE OR IT'S PULLED UP
TO A CURB.
I NEED TO I WANT TO THINK ABOUT
LIKE THE SETBACKS IN THE
BUILDING FRONTAGES AND STUFF
BUT YOU KNOW TO THE TO THE
POINT OF ELECTRIFICATION TO
LIKE THOSE ARE THINGS THAT
WE'RE ASKING FOR INPUTS AND
THAT WE'RE GETTING.
SO I I MEAN I KNOW LIKE WHAT TO
THE PETITION OR IF THAT WAS
THAT WAS IT
DISCUSS IT LIKE YOU
KNOW NEW DEVELOPMENT WITHIN
THIS WOULD NEED TO BE ALL AFTER
IT WAS THAT EVER CONVERSATION I
DID REFER TO BUT WE I MEAN WE
BROUGHT THAT IT WOULD PROBABLY
BE A COMMENT FROM PLANET YOU
KNOW SO YEAH THAT'S THAT'S A
FAIR QUESTION.
WE WE DON'T BELIEVE IT WAS
BROUGHT UP WHEN WE WERE BEFORE
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
PREVIOUSLY TO PRESENT THIS.
I DID HEAR A DISCUSSION ABOUT
IT TONIGHT.
OBVIOUSLY WE HAVEN'T DONE ANY
REAL ANALYSIS OF THAT.
WE DON'T KNOW WHO WILL PURCHASE
AND WHAT THEY WILL BUILD
OBVIOUSLY BACK BEFORE THE
PLANNING COMMISSION IF AND WHEN
THERE'S A SITE PLANNED FOR
REVIEW AND THAT WILL REQUIRE IF
I'M CORRECT IT'S A AMENDMENT TO
THE PUDI AGAIN SO WELL IT MAY
NOT REQUIRE IT DEFINITELY
REQUIRE A SITE PLAN BUT IF IT'S
CONSISTENT WITH THE ZONING IT
WOULD ONLY IT WOULD STILL BE A
FALSE STATEMENT.
IT WOULD GO TO PLANNING
COMMISSION BUT IT MAY MAKE
TWEAK THE AMENDMENTS BUT THE
PARTY OK SO SO BUT IT WILL BE
BETTER FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR A SITE REVIEW
CERTAINLY THAT THAT WE CAN
EXPLAIN I THINK TO WHOEVER IS
INTERESTED IN PURCHASING THE
REMAINING LAND THAT THAT'S A
CONSIDERATION THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION IS GOING TO BE
LOOKING AT.
CERTAINLY WE CAN'T REQUIRE IT
THEN YOU PROBABLY COULDN'T
REQUIRE IT BUT YOU COULD
CERTAINLY INDICATE THAT THAT'S
SOMETHING THAT WOULD BE
RELEVANT TO THE DECISION NOW WE
COULD YEAH WE HAVE AGAIN WE
HAVE NOT WE HAVE NOT DONE ANY
REVIEW OF THAT.
NO.
I MEAN NOW WITH THAT WITH THAT
FOR NOW COUNCIL MEMBER DESH SO
YEAH TWO OTHER WISH-LIST ITEMS
OFF OF CARQUEST WISH LIST I
DON'T KNOW WHY WE DON'T ACCEPT
THE SUGGESTION OF PROHIBITING
STREET FACING PARKING THAT
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT YOU I
MEAN WE DIDN'T IN FACT DISCUSS
IT.
I DID NOT DISCUSS THAT WITH THE
COMMISSIONER.
I DIDN'T GO TO THAT LEVEL WHAT
KIND OF DETAIL BUT BUT
ABSOLUTELY THE COMMISSION IF
THAT'S SOMETHING SAME AS WITH
THE THE OTHER ISSUE WE BROUGHT
UP THAT WE WERE GOING TO CHANGE
THE TWO THREE MINIMUM THAT CAN
ALSO BE DISCUSSED AND YOU KNOW,
DISCUSS WITH THE COMMISSIONER
AS WELL.
YEAH, WELL I WOULD LIKE TO PUT
THAT ON THE TABLE CLEARLY NOT
THAT THE EXISTING PARKING
SHOULD BE RIPPED UP UNLESS IT'S
BEING SUBSTANTIALLY ALTERED BUT
DEVELOPMENT ON THE VACANT PART
IT SEEMS LIKE THERE'S NO REASON
TO HAVE STREET FACING POSSIBLY
BASICALLY BY STREET RACING YOU
MEAN SO NO PARKING IN FRONT
OF A BUILDING MORE OR LESS LIKE
THERE HAS TO BE A BUILDING
SCREENING IT CORRECT.
OK, SO AGAIN THAT'S SOMETHING I
WOULD LOOK TO THE WHAT WHAT OUR
COUNCIL MEMBER OF COMMISSIONERS
IS PUTTING OUT IN THE
SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS WOULD
BE A RESTRICTION TO HAVE
PARKING SORRY NO MORE PARKING
IN FRONT OF BUILDINGS ALONG
GREEN ROOF.
YES THAT'S CORRECT.
WELL I'M JUST AND THE REASON I
BRING THIS UP IS BECAUSE WHEN
WE LAST DISCUSSED THIS WHICH
WAS ABOUT A YEAR AGO WE TALKED
ABOUT WHY IT WASN'T BEING
RESOLVED TO SEE ONE AND IT WAS
IT WAS AN INTERESTING ANSWER
THAT WE HAD THERE THAT THERE
MIGHT BE SOME BENEFITS THAT WE
COULD GET IF NOT THAT IF WE
SELL THIS ONE THE EXISTING
BUILDINGS WOULD BE
NONCONFORMING WITH THAT BUT
ALSO THAT ASPECTS OF THIS
PROJECT ARE LOOKING FORWARD TO
TO SEE ONE.
AND I SORT OF I LIKE THAT
SENTENCE IN MY NOTES AND SO I
THOUGHT PERHAPS WE SHOULD THINK
ABOUT AS MANY ASPECTS OF THE
OF WHAT WE'RE DOING NOW TO LOOK
FORWARD TO TO SEE WHAT WOULD BE
NICE AND SO AND THEN THE ONLY
OTHER ONE IN THIS CONFLICTS
WITH WHAT I HAVE JUST SAID BUT
THE OTHER ONE THAT MR. WESTFALL
BRINGS UP IS PROTECTING THE
TREES THAT ARE NOW SHADING THAT
VERY LONG SIDEWALK ALONG GREEN
AND A SETBACK OF TWENTY FIVE
FEET WOULD PROBABLY DO A BETTER
JOB BUT THAT WAS AN ERROR.
SO SO WE HAVE A SETBACK
OF FIFTEEN FEET AND THAT IS
PROBABLY NOT ADEQUATE TO
PROTECT THAT LOVELY STAND
OF TREES.
I DON'T KNOW IF THEY'RE I'M NOT
AN ARBORIST.
THEY ARE LARGE.
I DON'T KNOW IF THEY'RE SPECIAL
IN ANY WAY BUT THEY DO PRODUCE
SHADE ALONG A PRETTY EXPOSED
AREA BY VIRTUE OF IT BEING
ACROSS FROM A REALLY LARGE
CONCRETE.
YOU KNOW WHAT'S ON THE OTHER
SIDE OF THE STREET IS A REALLY
LARGE CONCRETE THING AND SO
THOSE TREES ARE PRETTY NICE AND
I THINK I WOULD BE YOU SO IF WE
CAN AND I WAS AGAINST THE IDEA
OF WE JUST WANT TO BUILD UP TO
THE FRONT LINE BUT WE'RE ALSO
DEBATING THAT AS WELL.
SO OK, SO THOSE ARE THE TWO
THINGS THAT I WANTED TO PUT ON
THE TABLE.
BUT FRONT FACING PARKING AND DO
WE WANT DO WE CARE ENOUGH ABOUT
THE LINE OF TREES INSIDE?
IF I COULD JUST ADD ONE THING
THAT TRIGGERED MY MEMORY AS
WELL THAT I WANTED TO MENTION
IS THAT RIGHT?
ONE THING TO KEEP IN MIND WITH
THESE SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS
NEW CUSTOMERS THERE ARE
EXISTING BUILDINGS IN THIS CITY
RIGHT NOW SO THAT IS ONE THING
THAT WE HAVE TO CONSIDER A LOT
OF TIMES WHETHER YOU'RE DEALING
WITH ONE A VACANCY OR YOU KNOW,
IT COULD BE COMPLETELY
REMODELED BUT THIS THESE
PARTIES AND THE REPLACE THE
ENTIRE NOW AGAIN THAT DOESN'T
CHANGE ANYWAY DIRECTION YOU'RE
GOING.
I JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE
THAT'S CLEAR AND REGARDING THE
TREES ALONG THERE, THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT WELL AT LEAST I
INTERNALLY DEBATED ABOUT
REDUCING THAT SETBACK KNOWING
THAT THOSE TREES WERE THERE.
BUT AGAIN LOOKING AT HOW WE
LIKE TO SEE WHAT WE'RE PUTTING,
YOU KNOW, THINGS A LITTLE BIT
CLOSER TO THE STREET AND SO
THAT AGAIN WAS A GOOD POINT FOR
DISCUSSION.
THE PLANNING COMMISSION, WHICH
DIRECTION YOU WANT TO GO AND I
DON'T KNOW NECESSARILY WHETHER
TWENTY FIVE FEET WOULD PROTECT
THE TREES OR FIFTEEN FEET WOULD
NECESSARILY COME.
I THINK GOING TO THAT LEVEL
OF DETAIL THANK YOU
COMMISSIONER SALVAJE TO ME AND
SAY I BELIEVE IT'S A MINIMUM
STEP BACK AND SO THE BUILDING
COULD SET BACK FURTHER AND IF
WE REVIEW THE SITE PLAN A
ALTERNATIVE ARRANGEMENT PLAN
MAY HAVE TO BE SHOWN RELATIVE
TO THE CHANGE OF NATURAL
FEATURES.
SO IF THEY DEVOTE ALL OF THE
TREES TO FIT THE SIDEWALK AND
THE BUILDING VERY CLOSE, WE
COULD EVALUATE THAT IN TERMS
OF HARM.
GOOD.
SIMILARLY, IF WE ALLOW THE
FLEXIBILITY AT 15 FEET MAYBE A
PIECE OF THE BUILDING SUCH AS
AN ENTRANCE COULD PROTRUDE.
WE COULD LOSE A COUPLE OF TREES
AND THE THING COULD JOG BACK OR
SOMETHING.
SO I'M COMFORTABLE WITH LEAVING
IT AND GIVING THE FLEXIBILITY
FOR DESIGN AND THAT WE COULD
EVALUATE IT WITH NATURAL
FEATURES AT A PLANT LEVEL LATER
ON.
BUT I DO WANT TO ADD TO THE
KIND OF ALIGNMENT WITH DC ONE
AND THAT ALSO THE TWENTY TWENTY
ONE BUILDING CODE IS FINALLY
GETTING REVIEWED AND THAT WE
MIGHT BE LOOKING AT SEVENTY
FIVE FEET INSTEAD OF FIFTY FIVE
FEET FOR TALL BUILDINGS NOW AND
SO THIS ASKS FOR THE SIXTY FIVE
FEET AND I'D RECOMMEND IT
ALIGNING AT SEVENTY FIVE FEET
MAXIMUM HEIGHT MAYBE EVEN
STRIKING THE STORIES.
THIS IS MY COMFORT LEVEL SO I
PUT IT TO THE TABLE JUST TO
TELL ME SIMILAR TO TO SEE ONE
WHICH IS AT A FIFTY AND SEVENTY
FIVE FEET AND THEN IT ALSO
ALIGNS WITH THE BUILDING CODES
SO THAT WE'RE NOT HAVING KIND
OF DIFFERENCE IN HEIGHT
RESTRICTIONS BETWEEN ZONING AND
BUILDING CODES.
SO I OFFER THAT TO THE TABLE.
MR MILLS, THANK YOU FOR
NOTICING ME BECAUSE THIS
IMMEDIATELY ON TO THAT I I WAS
CURIOUS ABOUT THE SIXTY FIVE
BECAUSE THAT DOESN'T SEEM TO
LINE UP TO ANYTHING IN THE
TABLE.
EVERYTHING IS FIFTY FIVE FEET
AND TWO STORIES OR SOMETHING
DIFFERENT AND I WAS SIMILARLY
CURIOUS ABOUT IN MOST OF THE
SITUATIONS WHERE IT IS FIFTY
FIVE FEET THERE IS SOME
REFERENCE TO NEARBY RESIDENTIAL
AND I KNOW AGAIN A LOT OF THE
ATTENTION IS ON THE PARCEL
THAT'S FARTHER FROM RESIDENTIAL
BUT FOLLOWING THROUGH KIND
OF THE FIFTY FIVE WITHIN 80
FEET OF RESIDENTIAL AND SEVENTY
FIVE WITHIN EIGHTY TO THREE
HUNDRED FEET WITHIN RESIDENTIAL
I THINK AGAIN BORROWS FROM
ANOTHER DISTRICT BUT THIS MIGHT
BE REAL ESTATE TOO ARE RELATED
TO AND I WAS JUST CURIOUS ABOUT
WHY THAT WHY IN A LOT OF THE
OFFICE IN THE OFFICE DISTRICT
THERE'S STEP DOWN WHEN IT'S A
BUDDING RESIDENTIAL AND SINCE I
DOUBLE CHECK TO MAKE SURE THAT
THE RESIDENTIAL TO THE SOUTH IS
IS RESIDENTIAL ZONED SO WAS
THAT PART OF THE DISCUSSION?
IF I WERE REDUCING THE HEIGHT
NEXT TO THE RESIDENTIAL NO IT
WAS NOT OK IN MY IN MY MIND
IT'S LIKE BALANCE OF GOING TO
MEET WHAT IS COMMON IN THE
OTHER AREAS.
I KNOW IT WOULD BE A REDUCTION
FROM WHAT'S PROPOSED BUT IT'S
NOT A REDUCTION FROM WHAT IS
THERE RIGHT NOW WITHIN 80 FEET
AND THEN GOING UP TO WHAT
COMMISSIONER SILVER SUGGESTED.
SEVENTY FIVE FOR WHAT IS THE
MAJORITY OF THAT SITE MAKES ME
FEEL LIKE IT.
IT'S MORE IN KEEPING WITH
WHAT'S THERE.
BUT I'M CURIOUS THE
PETITIONER'S PERSPECTIVE LIKE
IF THAT'S IF THAT'S A FRIENDLY
AMENDMENT, I THINK THAT THE
DECISION WAS MADE TO INCREASE
THE HEIGHT BASED ON COMMENTS
ABOUT HOW TO MAKE THE PARCEL
GENERALLY BETTER USE OF THE
PROPERTY.
SO IT BASICALLY BASED ON
FEEDBACK THAT WE RECEIVED I
DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY
OBJECTION WITH MAKING THE
HEIGHT TALLER AND OR YOU KNOW,
LIMITING HEIGHT IN RELATION TO
RESIDENTIAL ADJACENT DISTRICTS
TO THE PROPOSED HEIGHT AND
TOWER IN OTHER AREAS.
I DON'T THINK EITHER ONE
OF THOSE IS NECESSARILY
PROBLEMATIC.
WE DON'T KNOW TRACY DENHA WITH
ANY OF THE OTHER FOLKS IN THE
PD TO GET FEEDBACK ON THOSE
SORTS OF IDEAS.
BUT WE I DON'T THINK WE WOULD
HAVE ANY OBJECTION TO THAT.
I MEAN TO BE CLEAR, MY
UNDERSTANDING AGAIN I GOT TO
PULL UP THE OTHER ONE BUT
THE
FIFTY FIVE FEET WITHIN 80 FEET
IS STILL MORE THAN WHAT'S
CURRENTLY WHAT'S CURRENTLY
ALLOWED AT ALL.
CORRECT.
SO IT I'M STILL A BIT MORE THAN
WHAT'S THERE AND THIS WOULD
ALLOW EVEN HIGHER KIND
OF FARTHER FROM THAT SOUTHERN
PROPERTY LINE.
SO SURE IT'S A PITY.
SO I THINK THERE'S SOME SOME
POLICY DECISION MAKING ABOUT
WHETHER OR NOT THE SAID HE
WANTS TO TRY TO YOU KNOW, MAKE
THE BEST USE POSSIBLE THE
PROPERTY.
BUT THERE WAS A THERE HASN'T
HAD A TON OF DISCUSSION ABOUT
HIGHER HEIGHT OR A DIFFERENT
HEIGHT AT THIS POINT.
THANK YOU.
AND ANOTHER NO LET'S SEE.
I APPRECIATE SO I'M I'M
INTERESTED IN THAT.
I WOULD BE INTERESTED IN MAKING
NOW WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THREE
CHANGES TIGHT ADDING A MINIMUM
HEIGHT, INCREASING THE MAXIMUM
HEIGHT OVERALL EXCEPT WITHIN 80
FEET OF RESIDENTIAL HIS OWN
PROPERTY TO KEEPING AT FIFTY
FIVE TO MATCH WHATEVER'S IN THE
REST OF HERE AND I DON'T CARE
ABOUT THE STORY STUFF.
SO I THOUGHT YOU SAID THE MATCH
FIT TO FIFTY FIVE THE EXISTING
SETS FIFTY I KNOW FIFTY FIVE
FROM OFFICE FIFTY GUY FROM
OFFICE AND FROM ALMOST
EVERYTHING ELSE WITHIN THE
TABLE IN THE CURRENT ZONE FIFTY
FIVE FEET OFFICE WITHIN EIGHTY
SEVENTY FIVE EVERYWHERE EXCEPT
WITHIN EIGHTY FIVE FEET
OF RESIDENTIAL IN EIGHTY 80
FEET OF RESIDENTIAL STREET AND
THEN BEING FIFTY FIVE FIVE FOUR
EIGHT WITH RESIDENTIAL ZONING.
YES WITHIN I THINK THAT'S
RIGHT.
I THINK THAT THAT IS HOW THE
TICK ONE IS DRAFTED IN THAT'S
HOW A LOT OF THIS WORKS.
YES THAT'S SIMILAR.
YEP I APPRECIATED THE
DISCUSSION THE REMINDER ABOUT
WHY KEEPING IT IN A PUDI I'M
I'M SO I I ACTUALLY HAVE LOOKED
I WAS LIKE I DON'T REMEMBER
DISCUSSING THIS BECAUSE HIS MAP
LAST YEAR BUT AND SO I WAS UP
NORTH AT THAT CONFERENCE I
WASN'T THERE SO SORRY BUT I
THINK THIS FOR ME SO I TRUST
THAT CONVERSATION HAPPENED.
I'M THINKING ABOUT LIKE WHAT
ARE THE BENEFITS AND PART OF ME
ALSO SAYING LIKE THIS IS WHY I
DON'T LOVE BEAUTIES GENERALLY
BECAUSE THEY GO OUT OF DATE
BECAUSE WE'RE MAKING CURRENT
WITH WHAT IS HAPPENING NOW AND
SO IT'S INTERESTING TO ME THAT
THERE ARE USES THAT ARE ALLOWED
HERE.
WE DON'T ALLOW THE COMBINATION
OF USES ANYWHERE ELSE THAT IS
VERY INTERESTING TO ME.
I DON'T KNOW BASED ON WHAT
WE'RE HEARING THAT THAT'S
ACTUALLY WHAT WE'RE GOING TO
GET.
AND SO I WOULD JUST SAY LIKE
THIS IS WHAT HAPPENS.
I APPRECIATE LIKE TO THE
THINGS THAT ARE CURRENTLY
REQUIRED IN OUR CODE BECAUSE I
HAVE LOTS OF QUESTIONS ABOUT EV
CHARGING AND ALL OF THOSE DARK
SKIES COMPLIANCE AND ALL THESE
THINGS.
AND SO EVEN SO IF IT WERE JUST
IF IT WERE A A STANDARD ZONING
DISTRICT THAT WOULD THAT WOULD
KEEP UP THE TIMES AS WE'RE
GOING OVERALL.
SO I'M NOT SAYING IN THE WAY
OF THIS BUT JUST BUILDING IT
FOR EVERYONE'S BENEFIT.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBEE.
JUST A COUPLE OF THINGS.
ONE, I THINK THE HEIGHT MAKES
SENSE TO SORT OF TIE IT TO
OTHER DISTRICTS BUT ALSO THIS
IS ON THE NORTH SIDE OF THE
HOUSING AND SO WHETHER IT'S 55
OR 65 OR 75, IT'S NOT GOING TO
BOXUN.
IT'S NOT GOING TO REALLY LOOK
THAT DIFFERENT TO THE THREE
STOREY BUILDINGS BEHIND IT.
SO THAT'S JUST LIKE I DON'T
HAVE A STRONG FEELING BUT IF 20
MORE FEET GIVES US A LOT MORE
OPPORTUNITY, THEN I DON'T THINK
IT'S REALLY INFRINGING.
IF SOMEBODY'S ON THEIR FIRST
FLOOR APARTMENT IS LOOKING OUT,
IT'S GOING TO LOOK THE SAME
WHETHER IT'S FIFTY FIVE FEET OR
SEVENTY FIVE FEET FROM THEIR
POINT OF VIEW AND IT IS ON THE
NORTH SIDE.
SO BUT THEN THE OTHER THING
THAT I DID NOTICE IS THE PUBLIC
BENEFIT REALLY THE ONLY PUBLIC
BENEFIT OTHER THAN AN
INTERESTING MIX OF USES IS THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING PREMIUM.
I'M NOT GOING TO SAY PREMIUM
BUT AND AND THERE IS NO
GUARANTEE I MEAN THIS COULD
VERY EASILY BE MEDICAL
MANUFACTURING.
I MEAN AND WOULD MAKE A LOT
OF SENSE IN THAT AREA TO YOU
KNOW, MANUFACTURE FACEMASKS OR
VACCINES OR WHATEVER.
SO THERE IS NO GUARANTEE THAT
AFFORDABLE HOUSING OR HOUSING
AT ALL WOULD EVER BE THERE AND
SO FOR THAT TO BE KIND OF THE
ONLY PUBLIC BENEFIT IS IT
DOESN'T NECESSARILY SIT WELL
WITH ME AS A REALLY STRONG
BENEFIT.
IT'S GREAT IF HOUSING IS BUILT
BUT THERE IS REALLY NO
GUARANTEE BECAUSE WE'VE ADDED
OTHER USES IN ADDITION TO
HOUSING FOR THE SAME THANK YOU
WITH A PETITION.
I CAN RESPOND TO THAT JUST JUST
BRIEFLY THAT'S A REALLY GOOD
COMMENTS THERE.
WE JUST INTERESTINGLY WE DID
HEAR FROM ANOTHER OWNER IN THE
PD THAT IS AN OFFICE OWNER THAT
THEY WOULD ACTUALLY HAVE
INTEREST OF CONSIDERING
POTENTIALLY IN THE FUTURE
LOOKING AT A RESIDENTIAL USE
EVEN IN LIEU OF EXISTING
OFFICE.
SO THAT THE A COUPLE OF THINGS
YOU MENTIONED THERE IN TERMS
OF MAKING THE HOUSE THE UNIFORM
THROUGHOUT THE PROJECT WOULD
PROBABLY HELP FACILITATE THAT
WAS ONE THOUGHT AND THEN THE
OTHER THOUGHT I GUESS IS YOU
KNOW, THE FACT THAT THERE IS
THERE HAS BEEN EXPRESSED
INTEREST IN POTENTIALLY DOING
HOUSING IN THIS VACANT SITE AND
AN EXISTING OTHER OTHER
EXISTING CURRENT OFFICE USERS
CONSIDERING HOUSING AS WELL.
YOU KNOW, I REALIZE THAT THAT
THAT'S A LIMITED PUBLIC BENEFIT
IN RELATION TO OTHER TYPES
OF PUBLIC BENEFITS.
BUT I DO THINK IT'S MATERIAL IN
TERMS OF THE THE IMPACT OF A 15
TO 20 PERCENT AFFORDABLE
HOUSING COMPONENT IF IN FACT
HOUSING DOES MATERIALIZE AS
WE'VE SEEN INTEREST IN ACTUALLY
HAPPENING ON THE SITE.
THAT'S A THANK YOU IF I COULD
JUST ADD A LITTLE BIT I MEAN WE
DID INTERNALLY A STAFF WE
DISCUSSED WITH MR. LEONARD AS
WELL AS YOU KNOW THAT THE
QUESTION THAT YOU JUST KIND
OF TOUCHED ON WHICH IS THAT
RESIDENTIAL DOES NOT REQUIRE
BUT IT'S A IT'S A SLIPPERY
WHERE WE YOU KNOW HOW COULD WE
REQUIRE IT LIKE LIKE DESIGNING
A NEW PARCEL LIKE PART OF THE
OR AGAIN AND DEALING WITH ALL
THESE OTHER EXISTING USES.
IT WAS REALLY TRICKY.
SO AGAIN, NOT TO SAY THAT THE
PERSON CAN'T RECOMMEND I MEAN
ABSOLUTELY WE CAN WE CAN WORK
WITHIN THAT.
BUT THAT WAS SOMETHING THAT WE
DID DEBATE AGAIN, IT WASN'T
SOMETHING THAT WE PUT FORWARD
TO THE PETITIONER BECAUSE WE
JUST DIDN'T IT WAS IT WAS
CHALLENGING IN ITSELF AND AGAIN
TO WRITE SOMETHING THAT WOULD
NECESSARILY REQUIRE IT WE GET
INTO BUT ACKNOWLEDGING THAT THE
PUBLIC BENEFIT COULD ONLY BE
ACHIEVED WITH THAT USE OR THAT
PUBLIC BENEFIT.
BUT AGAIN, WE'RE TRYING TO MAKE
IT A LITTLE BIT MORE LIBERAL
RATHER THAN TRYING TO RESTRICT
THINGS DOWN EVEN THOUGH I
UNDERSTAND THAT HOUSING IS WHAT
WE ALL REALLY WANT TO SEE ON
THE SITE.
BUT BUT BUT THAT IS CORRECT.
IT'S NOT A REQUIRED YOU
COMMISSIONER.
RIGHT.
SO I APPRECIATE COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBY'S RAISING OF THE
PUBLIC BENEFITS BECAUSE I I
WOULD AGREE ALSO WITH THE
PUBLIC COMMENT FROM MR. GARBER
THAT THERE AREN'T VERY MANY
PUBLIC BENEFITS IN THIS PUDI
DARE I SAY ANY AND I WONDER
GIVEN SO SO IF I CAN GET A
BETTER FRAMEWORK BECAUSE THIS
IS AN EXISTING PUDI THAT WE ARE
MAKING TEXT AMENDMENTS OR
CHANGES TO TO PERMIT MORE USERS
AND WE'RE TRYING AT THE SAME
TIME TO BRING ASPECTS OF THE
PUDI TO MATCH OUR EXISTING
CODE .
BUT THAT'S NOT REQUIRED.
SO WE COULD THEY WOULD HAVE A
RIGHT TO LEAVE THE POD AS IT IS
AND JUST COME AND ASK FOR THE
ADDITIONAL USERS AND NOT HAVE
TO MEET OUR EV CHARGING, HAVE
TO MEET OUR DARK SKY, KNOW NO I
MEAN I THINK I UNDERSTAND BUT
THEY STILL HAVE TO DO A SITE
PLAN WHICH HAS ALL THOSE REALLY
I MEAN WHEN A SITE PLAN COMES
BUT THAT'S ONLY TRIGGERED BY
THE SITE PLAN CORRECT.
YES.
ALL THE APPLICATION OF THOSE
ORDINANCES IT WOULD NOT APPLY
TO THE OTHER BUILT
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT'S INSIDE
THE PUDI UNLESS THEY BROUGHT A
NEW SITE PLANET BECAUSE THAT
WOULD BE THE ONLY PLACE THAT WE
COULD MAKE THOSE CHANGES.
WOULD IT PUT IF PARKING?
WELL, I'M TRYING TO THINK
THROUGH THIS IF IT WAS A
REQUIREMENT SO ONLY IT WOULD
DEPEND ON HOW IT WOULD DEPEND
ON HOW THIS PARTICULAR
OF REGULATIONS ARE CRAFTED IF
IF TONIGHT'S PROJECT FAILS THE
EXISTING BEAUTY DOES REMAIN AND
THEY HAVE AND THEY ARE ENTITLED
TO BUILD UNDER THE CURRENT
GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS.
RIGHT.
SO THEY WOULD SAY MANUFACTORY
BENEFIT AND I WOULD SAY THAT
THE BENEFITS DISCUSSION SHOULD
BE WHAT WHAT THE PROPOSED
CHANGES ARE.
THEY COULD PROPOSE TO FULLY
REVAMP THE PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENTS UP NON REGULATION
AND AND AND I UNDERSTAND THEY
HAVE TO AN
EXTENT THEY HAVE NOT
CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG THEY
HAVE NOT SAID WE WE WILL
RETROACTIVELY APPLY SAY
ELECTRIC VEHICLE PARKING BUT
ALSO IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE IT'S
IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE THE PARTY
HAS BEEN LABELED AS PHASES FOR
THE THIS VACANT PIECE.
THESE ARE THE REQUIREMENTS
REQUIREMENTS FOR IT.
WE HAVE A SORT OF A HYBRID
APPROACH.
THERE'S NOTHING THAT'S OFF THE
TABLE PER SAY.
BUT TO BE CLEAR WHAT THEY HAVE
THEY ARE PROPOSING THAT TO
CHANGE IS HAPPENING.
THE REGULATIONS AND THE NEW
REQUIREMENTS WOULD BE
IMMEDIATELY EFFECTIVE BUT THEY
ONLY APPLY TO WHEN I SAY
PLANNING ASSESSMENT AND SO THE
TRIGGER THE TRIGGERS DECIDE
WHAT TO DO.
SO I AM CORRECT IN MY
UNDERSTANDING THAT THEY COULD
RE PARCEL OF LAND SELL AND THEN
THE NEW OWNER COULD COME AND
REQUEST ZONING CHANGE FROM
PAUDIE TO SOMETHING ELSE.
YEAH THAT COULD HAPPEN WITH OR
WITHOUT THIS TONIGHT'S CHANGE
SO AND JUST HELP ME AS I AM I'M
GOING TO DO A COMMISSIONER THIS
EVENING TO USE THE FINGERS I
JUST WANT TO BETTER UNDERSTAND
WHAT I DON'T UNDERSTAND AND
SORRY IF THAT WASN'T FAIR YOU
ARTICULATED IT.
YEAH SO THERE ARE BENEFITS TO
THE CURRENT HOLDER OF THE
PERIOD FOR US TO MAKE THESE
CHANGES AS OPPOSED TO US
REJECTING THESE CHANGES AND
THEN HAVING THE OWNER EITHER
HAVE TO DECIDE TO PARCEL OUT
THE LAND AND REQUEST A NEW
ZONING AND SO BECAUSE I'M JUST
TRYING TO TO TO UNDERSTAND LIKE
THE FRAMEWORK THAT WE ARE
PRESENTLY UNDER CORRECTO I
THINK IF I UNDERSTAND SO RIGHT.
SAY THE CITY EXISTING SO ONE
OF THE OPTIONS COULD BE FOR THE
PETITIONER IF YEAH.
IF YOU LET THE EXISTING ZONING
IN PLACE AS OPPOSED BY THE
PETITIONER COULD WITHDRAW YOU
KNOW WITH THE PERMISSION
OF PULL THIS OUT OF THAT PUDI
DISTRICT AND REZONING IT IS OUR
A YEAR OUT.
I MEAN THAT IS AN OPTION THAT I
THINK WAS BRIEFLY LOOKED AT AT
LEAST INITIALLY BUT AGAIN AND
THEN THE EXISTING PUTI WOULD
STAY IN PLACE FOR THE OTHER
ONE.
RIGHT.
BUT THAT WAS SOMETHING THAT WE
ASSESSED IT LOOKED AT AND AGAIN
IN COOPERATION WITH THE FACT
EVEN MORE VALUABLE TO BRING THE
WHOLE DISTRICT UP ACKNOWLEDGING
THOSE CHALLENGES WITH THAT THAT
MAY BE GETTING SOME NEW THINGS
AGAIN WE WERE LOOKING TOWARDS
MOST LIKELY THE POTENTIAL USES
OF RESIDENTIAL BUT THAT'S NOT
NECESSARILY TRUE.
SO OVERALL I THINK WE DID FEEL
THAT THERE IS MANAGES TO BRING
THE WHOLE PUDI DISTRICT RATHER
THAN ADVISING THEM TO PULL THAT
PARCEL OUT AND REDESIGN IT TO
SOMETHING ELSE.
OK, YEAH I HOPE THAT AS THANK
YOU ALEXIS.
THIS IS YOUR QUESTION AND THE
ANSWER IS MY QUESTION.
I THINK WHAT I'M TRYING TO PASS
IS THERE BECAUSE THIS IS SUCH A
ARTIFACT FROM PAST ZONI BEING
BROUGHT FORWARD THERE ARE
ADVANTAGES TO US THAT ARE BUILT
IN FOR THIS PADDYS THAT
WOULDN'T EXIST IF WE WERE
LOOKING AT A NEW PUDI SO THEY
WERE BRINGING THIS POD TO US
TODAY.
THIS WOULD HAVE TO MEET YOU
KNOW SECTION F OF FIVE POINT
TWENTY NINE POINT ELEVEN AND
THERE ARE SEVEN POINTS UNDER
THERE.
THE OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENT, THE
INNOVATION OF THE USE, THE
DESIGN, THE LAYOUT AND THE TYPE
OF STRUCTURES THE ECONOMY AND
THE EFFICIENCY OF THE LAND USE
THE PRESERVATION OF THE NATURAL
FEATURES, THE EMPLOYMENT
SHOPPING DISTRICT AS WELL AS
THE USE OF REUSE OF EXISTING
SITES AND NONE OF THAT IS
REALLY UNDER CONSIDERATION AS
WE CONSIDER THESE CHANGES FOR
THE PROPOSAL, CORRECT?
RIGHT.
OK, THAT'S THAT'S WHAT I
THOUGHT OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER APRON'S I WOULD
LIKE TO CONTINUE HAVING THE
CONVERSATION AROUND PUBLIC
BENEFIT BUT FIRST MAYBE I ALSO
WANT TO JUST HAVE A
CONVERSATION AROUND POTENTIAL
DETRIMENT I GUESS AND MAKE SURE
WE'RE PROTECTING AGAINST THAT.
SO I WANTED TO TALK ABOUT
PARKING MAXIMUMS AND MAYBE
LEARN A LITTLE BIT ABOUT HOW
THOSE WERE DETERMINED BECAUSE
THEY SEEM HIGH TO ME AND I
WOULD SUPPORT LOWERING THEM BUT
I DIDN'T KNOW IF THEY WERE SOME
OF THEM ARE ZONES WHERE THERE
CURRENTLY IS NO MAXIMUM.
SOME OF THEM ARE ZONES LIKE
OFFICE WHERE THERE IS AND IT
MATCHES THAT OR USES SORRY
ZONES LIKE ONE THING I CAN SAY
TO THE PARKING IS THAT MANY
OF THOSE ARE THE EXISTING WHAT
WAS IN THERE EXISTS THERE
ACTUALLY WASN'T NO MORE THAN IN
THE CURRENT REQUIREMENTS.
THE ONLY THING THAT STAFF WE
DID CHANGE TO ONE AND IT WAS
ACTUALLY TWO PER TWO PER
DWELLING UNIT FOR MULTIFAMILY
AND WE WE JUST KNOCKED IT DOWN
TO ONE AND A HALF WHICH AGAIN I
THINK I PROBABLY MENTIONED
ABOVE THAT PARKING WOULD BE A
DISCUSSION ISSUE AS WELL AS FAR
AS THE PARKING MAXIMUM.
BUT THERE INTERESTINGLY THERE
WAS A REALLY MAXIMUM IN THAT
SECTION BUT WE DIDN'T.
SO THOSE ARE IN PLACE FROM THE
CURRENT PROPOSAL.
SO I WOULD BE INTERESTED IN A
CONVERSATION AROUND REDUCING
THIS IF THE PETITIONERS OPEN TO
THAT CONVERSATION.
I DON'T HAVE ANY NUMBERS TO
THROW ON THE TABLE BUT WE COULD
TALK ABOUT THAT.
I THINK ALSO I REALLY WANT TO
ADD MY VOICE IN FAVOR
OF SOMETHING WHICH PROHIBITS
STREET FACING PARKING IN ANY
REDEVELOPMENT OR FUTURE
DEVELOPMENT.
SO THOSE ARE THE THINGS THAT I
THINK WOULD BE POTENTIALLY
DETRIMENTAL MORE BIG FEES
OF PARKING WHICH ARE UNGREEN
AND THEN IN TERMS OF THE PUBLIC
BENEFIT, I WOULD LIKE TO HAVE A
SERIOUS CONVERSATION AROUND
ELECTRIFICATION SO I DON'T KNOW
HOW TO IT SEEMS LIKE MAYBE
THAT'S SOMETHING YOU WOULDN'T
BE PREPARED TONIGHT TO COMMIT
TO.
I'M NOT TOTALLY SURE HOW TO
PROCEED ON THAT BUT MAYBE THE
FIRST IS TO SEE WHETHER FELLOW
COMMISSIONERS WOULD SUPPORT
THAT ON THE TOPICS
OF ELECTRIFICATION STREET
FACING PARKING AND PARKING
MAXIMUMS.
WOULD ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
LIKE TO SPEAK UP IN SUPPORT
OF THOSE CHANGES?
I CAN TAKE THOSE ALL THREE
SEPARATELY.
COMMISSIONER, I'M SORRY ABOUT
ALONG THE DEIRA CLARK SO SORRY
YOU HAD JUST SUPPORT WHAT
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS JUST
BROUGHT UP WITH THE ADDING IN
SOMETHING ABOUT THE PARKING IN
THAT COMMISSION MOST SO THE
PARKING IN FRONT IS NOT ALLOWED
IN A LOT OF OUR DISTRICTS
BECAUSE THEY HAVE WE HAVE A
MINIMUM STABACK OR MAXIMUM
STABACK BACK.
I'M SORRY.
SO IN MY MIND THAT ACTUALLY
AGAIN I LIKE FLEXIBILITY BUT I
DON'T SEE THAT AS A BENEFIT OR
ANY BENEFIT TO THIS ZONING
DISTRICT.
SO I THINK THAT IT SHOULD BE
INCLUDED IN THE REGULATION.
BUT I DON'T I DON'T COUNT THAT
AS A BENEFIT.
I I WOULD BE VERY MUCH IN
SUPPORT OF INCLUDING FOR
ELECTRIFICATION AS A BENEFIT
BECAUSE THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
WE DO REQUIRE IN ANY OF OUR
DISTRICTS.
YOU CAN'T EVEN GET A BONUS.
RIGHT.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT YOU
NECESSARILY SO YOU DON'T HAVE
TO GO THAT FAR IN ORDER TO GET
THE HYPOTHESIS THE BETTER WAY
OF SAYING IT.
SO YES, THAT STRONG BENEFIT I
CAN TOTALLY STAND BEHIND THAT.
THE OTHER THING THAT AS YOU
WERE TALKING THANK YOU
COMMISSIONER RATHER LIKE YES.
THERE'S LOTS OF THINGS THAT
COULD HAPPEN AND WE'RE THINKING
ABOUT ONE PARTICULAR THAT MIGHT
BE BENEFICIAL BUT THERE'S
NOTHING THAT TIES IT INTO THAT.
I MEAN ONE OF THE THINGS I
DON'T LOVE THIS BUT I'M JUST
GOING TO SAY ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT WAS THROUGH MY MIND WAS
YOU COULD YOU COULD YOU COULD
CAP THE SQUARE FOOTAGE
OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUT I DON'T
WANT THAT RIGHT.
I DON'T LIKE THAT AT ALL
EXACTLY AS SDH HEADSHAKING IF
YOU WANT TO IF YOU WANT TO MAKE
SURE THAT ANY ADDITIONAL IS
RESIDENTIAL I MEAN AGAIN
BECAUSE THOUGH THIS IS
ALTOGETHER IT'S TRICKY BUT
REQUIRING RESIDENTIAL IS
SOMETHING THAT WE DO WHEN WE
HAVE WE HAVE THIS IS WHAT WE
HAVE IN DC.
RIGHT.
SO SO FOR ME THE THING THAT WE
KNOW WE CAN GET OUT OF THIS IS
ELECTRIFICATION AND THAT'S
IMPORTANT NO MATTER WHAT.
BUT IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT TO ME
PARTICULARLY BECAUSE NOT
RESIDENTIAL BECAUSE THE WELL
BUT REQUIRES A LONGER
CONVERSATION.
BUT I THINK THAT IS REALLY,
REALLY, REALLY IMPORTANT AND
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT WE CAN DO
NO MATTER WHAT THOSE IN THE
SPACE WE WOULD SAY IS GOING TO
BE A BENEFIT AND JUSTIFY U.D.
BECAUSE YOU BECAUSE IT'S NOT IN
ANY OF THE OTHER DISTRICTS.
THANK YOU SO WELL.
SO IT'S SAFE TO SAY THAT YOU
WOULD LIKE TO SEE THAT AS AN
AMENDMENT TO THE PUDI.
DO I HAVE A FAMILY SECOND ON
THAT COMMISSION?
SEEMS LIKE WHETHER IT BE
COMMISSIONER SALVAJE OK ALL
RIGHT I'M GOING TO END YOUR
COMMISSIONER AT THIS POINT IN
TIME.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERMAN, I
SUPPORT YOU.
I JUST I THINK I HAVE A
CLARIFYING QUESTION.
I DON'T KNOW WHO I'M ASKING
THIS TO SO THE FULL THIS IS A
FIVE PURSELL FIVE RIGHT?
NO FORTIFICATION OF THE WHOLE
SIX.
LOOK, ANYTHING NEW OBVIOUSLY WE
NEED TO BE ELECTRIFIED.
AT WHAT POINT IS IT LIKE ANY
SORT OF RENOVATION OF THE
EXISTING STRUCTURES THAT ARE ON
THE SITE?
THERE WOULD THEN BE LIKE
NON-COMPLIANT I'M ASSUMING IF
THEY HAVE ANYTHING ANY THAT'S
OK.
THAT'S MY QUESTION.
I'M SORRY
WOULD BE HAPPENING ON
THE SITE WOULD THEN BE SUBJECT
TO A RETROACTIVE EVEN FOR
RENOVATIONS.
RIGHT.
WE WOULDN'T IT WOULD DEPEND ON
WHAT YEAH.
YEAH WE'D HAVE TO WORD IT
RIGHT.
WE COULD WORD IT IN A WAY THAT
WOULDN'T AFFECT THE EXISTING
WOMEN.
I WANT IT TO AFFECT THE
EXISTING THE EXISTING BUT YEAH
YEAH I MEAN I SUPPORT THAT IT'S
LIKE THE FIFTH OR SIXTH GOT A
THANK YOU.
SURE.
HAMMERSCHMIDT DO WE HAVE OTHER
DISCUSSION ITEMS COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE I JUST I THINK
PROBABLY EVERYONE UNDERSTANDS
THIS BUT I JUST WANTED TO POINT
OUT THAT EXPANSION OF THE
PERMITTED PRINCIPLE USES WOULD
INCLUDE MEDICAL AND DENTAL
OFFICES WHICH ARE CURRENTLY
PROHIBITED AND EXPAND THE
DEFINITION OF HOTEL WHICH IS
NOW ONLY EXTENDED STAYS BIGGER
THAN ONE HUNDRED.
WE JUST ALLOW ALL RIGHT AND
PERMIT RESIDENTIAL.
SO JUST THAT WE ARE ACTUALLY
ADDING A LOT OF POTENTIAL USES
TO THIS WHICH I YOU KNOW, I
MEAN THAT'S SOMETHING THAT
WE'RE GIVING A LOT OF POTENTIAL
USES AND I THINK SOME OF THOSE
ARE PROBABLY AS YOU KNOW,
DEFINITELY MEDICAL AND DENTAL
OFFICES ARE A WOULD BE A BIG
THING OVER ON THAT PERSONAL.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS I'M
GOING TO PUT THE THREE A LITTLE
BIT HERE AND SEE WHERE WE'RE
AT.
LET'S TAKE A LITTLE BIT
OF ACCOUNT.
SO PROHIBITION OF STREET FACING
PARKING THERE WAS DISCUSSION
REGARDING KIND OF THE FRONT
EDGE OF THE MAINTENANCE OF THE
TREES RELATIVE TO THE BUILDING
FRONTAGE.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT IS TO ME
THAT'S KIND OF THE NEW URBAN
THIS CONCEPT OF TRYING TO MAKE
IT MORE INTERESTING SLOW DOWN
TRAFFIC IF YOU BRING BUILDINGS
CLOSER AND I THINK A LOT
OF THAT HAS TO DO WITH MAKING
PEDESTRIANS FEEL SAFER.
SO IS ARE TREES SUFFICIENT IN
THAT YOU KNOW THAT AND SO I
THINK THAT'S KIND OF UP FOR
DEBATE.
BUT THERE'S DISCUSSIONS AROUND
FRONTAGE.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I WANTED
TO MENTION ON THAT STREET TO
THE NORTH IS C ONE B AND C ONE
WHICH IS ACTUALLY A TENT SET
BACK.
SO FROM MY STANDPOINT I WAS
THINKING ABOUT WHAT THE
CONTINUITY OF THAT ZONE LOOK
LIKE.
SO THAT'S ONE THING THAT I ALSO
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
COMMISSIONERS TAKE INTO ACCOUNT
SO THAT FRONTAGE STREET
FUNCTIONING PARKING
ELECTRIFICATION THE REQUIREMENT
THEREOF WE TALKED ABOUT MAKING
IT CONSISTENT WITH THE TSAY ON
ZONES OF INCREASING MAXIMUM
HEIGHT TO SEVENTY FIVE FEET AND
LESS WITHIN 80 FEET
OF RESIDENTIAL.
AND THEN I THINK WE HAVE A
LARGER THEMATIC QUESTION AT
LEAST THE ONE THAT I THINK
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN KIND
OF GRAPPLING WITH IS THIS IS
THIS A PRIORITY AMENDMENT?
CAN THIS BE ACHIEVED ANOTHER
DIFFERENT ZONE AND THEN THIS
QUESTION ABOUT WHAT ARE THE
SUFFICIENT PUBLIC BENEFITS SO
THE EFFICIENCY
OF ELECTRIFICATION?
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I WILL
MENTION IS THAT IN THE PAST WE
DID HAVE SARTORIUS COME HERE.
IF THEY ARE DOING LAB IT IS
DIFFICULT WHEN YOU HAVE LARGER
COOLING REQUIREMENTS, ET
CETERA.
SO JUST THE VAST VARIETY
OF USES IT ELECTRIFICATION THE
GRID REQUIREMENT FOR US TO SIT
HERE AND SAY WE DON'T
NECESSARILY KNOW WHAT THAT
SUBSTATION CAN HOLD TO SAY, YOU
KNOW THAT THAT'S REQUIRED WE
MAY BE PROHIBITING THEM USES
WITHOUT US ACTUALLY KNOWING IT.
SO I THINK A LITTLE MORE DUE
DILIGENCE IS REQUIRED ON ALL
PARTIES IN THAT RESPECT TAKING
A LOOK.
SO I THINK THAT'S KIND OF THE
ITEMS THAT I SEE AS YOU KNOW,
DISCUSSION POINTS THAT WE'VE
HAD SO FAR.
THE THINGS THAT I WANTED TO ADD
WE ARE IN THE MIDST OF A NEW
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN CURRENTLY.
IN FACT THERE'S A NEW PUBLIC
THAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN AT THE
END OF THIS MEETING AS WELL.
THAT BEING SAID, THE BEST THING
WE HAVE RIGHT NOW IS THE TWO
THOUSAND NINE LAND USE PLAN AS
A PART OF OUR PLAN.
SO WHEN YOU TAKE A LOOK AT IT
DOES SAY MIXED USE FOR THAT.
SO IT SAYS COMMERCIAL TO THE
NORTH MIXED USE RESEARCH TO THE
EAST, RUSSY TO THE SOUTH AND SO
FOR ME I THINK THE CHALLENGE IS
DOES THIS ACTUALLY ADHERE TO
THE LAND USE PLAN THAT WE'VE
COME TO AS A COMMUNITY?
AND SO THE CHALLENGE I HAVE IS
IS IT GOING TO RESULT IN THE
MIXED USE?
RIGHT.
BECAUSE IT COULD BE ANY ONE
OF THE MYRIAD OF IT REALLY IS A
WIDE PALETTE FOR YOU, SAYS SO I
THINK THAT'S THE CHALLENGE I
HAVE KIND OF GOING INTO THIS
THE IT'S OK THAT THAT IS JUST
MY FEEDBACK AS FAR AS THE
APPLICATION OF THE TWO THOUSAND
NINE LAND USE PLAN, IS IT GOING
TO RESULT IN THE MIXED USE THAT
WE WANT?
MR. KOWALSKI, DO YOU HAVE A
QUESTION PROCEDURALLY ON PUDI
WHEN I LOOK AT THE PUDI ON
ULYSSE, THE UNIFIED VELTMAN
CODE SAYS THAT A REVISION
OF PED'S REFERS BACK TO THE
PUDI SECTION AND IT SHOULD BE
ACCOMPANIED WITH THE SITE PLAN.
SO FOR ME IT'S KIND OF TOUGH TO
SAY LIKE HOW CAN WE KIND
OF EVALUATE WITH HOW DID YOU
GUYS COME TO THAT GENERAL
DISCUSSION AND GENERALLY I MEAN
CAN BE UNLESS NO DEVELOPMENT IS
PROPOSED THEN THERE'S THAT
EXEMPTION THAT THE PLANNING
MANAGER CAN WAIVE THE AREA AREA
PLAN OR SO IT'D BE AN AREA
PLAN.
SO ANY REZONING TYPICALLY ABOUT
SINGLE TO FAMILY HAS TO COME
WITH AN AREA MINOCYCLINE.
SO THE PLANNING MANAGER DOES
HAVE THE ABILITY TO HAVE THAT.
SO IN THIS CASE AGAIN SINCE WE
DIDN'T HAVE ANYTHING PROPOSED
AT THE TIME THAT WAS THE CASE.
CORRECT.
THIS ONE DOES NOT OBVIOUSLY
HAVE A STATEMENT WITH IT.
SURE.
AND SO TO TRY AND JUDGE THE
MERITS OF THESE PROPOSED
CHANGES WITHOUT HAVING KIND
OF A CLEAR SIDE PLAN THAT'S A
LITTLE TRICKY ESPECIALLY WITH
THE INFINITE PERMUTATIONS
OF SERVICES THAT WE SEE HERE.
I AGREE WITH COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSON ITS FIRST STATEMENT
THAT WE SUPPORT DENSIFICATION,
INTENSITY OF LAND USE,
PRODUCTIVE USE OF LAND.
I THINK THAT THE PROPOSED
CHANGES HERE MAY BE CHALLENGING
TO RECONCILE IN THIS SHORT
PERIOD OF TIME UNLESS THE
PETITIONER CAN TELL US IT SEEMS
LIKE THE COMMISSION WOULD LIKE
TO SEE.
I'M GOING TO RECAP AGAIN
ELECTRIFICATION IT'S PROBABLY A
BIG ONE EVEN THOUGH I'M SAYING
HERE RIGHT NOW IN THE PAST WE
HAVE SAID FOR LAB USES
RESTAURANTS, THINGS THAT
REQUIRE HIGH INTENSITY OF HEAT
,THERMAL LOAD ETC. THAT
REQUIRE LOTS OF COOLING.
THERE MAY BE TIMES WHERE, YOU
KNOW, WE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO
LIKE THAT WE'VE SAID IN THE
PAST BUT WE DO HAVE AN EIGHT TO
ZERO CLIMATE GOAL AND WE DO
NEED SUFFICIENT BASIS FOR
PUBLIC BENEFITS.
SO ELECTRIFICATION STREET
PARKING YOU SEEM TO BE PRETTY
FRIENDLY TO THAT THE HEIGHT YOU
WERE FRIENDLY WITH.
SO I THINK IT REALLY COMES DOWN
TO CAN WE GET A COMMITMENT I
THINK FROM THE PETITION ON
ELECTRIFICATION AND LET ME JUST
ASK THAT QUESTION OTHERWISE I
FEEL LIKE THIS IS PROBABLY
ADDED TO THIS.
I I'M JUST READING THE ROOM.
I'M TRYING TO BE PRACTICAL LIKE
HEY HOW DO WE PROCEED?
SO YEAH THANK THANK YOU
ACTUALLY FOR THAT SUMMARY.
IT WAS VERY HELPFUL I THINK TO
KIND OF TAKE SOME NOTES.
IT WAS VERY GOOD SUMMARY AND
I'LL JUST I'LL JUST NOTE HOW WE
GOT HERE BECAUSE THERE ARE A
LOT OF NEW STUFF DISCUSSED
TONIGHT AND I APPRECIATE THAT
THE INITIAL CONCEPT WAS TO SAY
IT WOULD REALLY BE HELPFUL IN
IN MARKETING THE UNDEVELOPED
SITE TO EXPAND SOME USES AND
THAT'S WHERE WE STARTED.
WE HAD SOME DISCUSSIONS WITH
STAFF AND STAFF SAID WELL
THAT'S GREAT.
IT WOULD BE GOOD IF WE COULD
UPDATE ALL OF THESE KIND
OF STANDARDS TO CURRENT YOU
KNOW, LIGHTING, HEAVY PARKING,
LANDSCAPING SETBACKS, ALL THAT
SORT OF STUFF.
AND SO THERE WAS GOOD COMMENT
MADE THAT, YOU KNOW, SOMEBODY
COULD COME IN AND DEVELOP UNDER
THE EXISTING 2D AND NOT HAVE TO
DO ANY OF THAT STUFF.
SO WE KIND OF YOU THAT I MEAN
WE DO VIEW THAT AS A BENEFIT
THAT THAT WOULD HAPPEN.
SO I THINK IN LIGHT OF ALL THE
IN LIGHT OF ALL THE NEW THINGS
SO THAT'S HOW WE GOT HERE.
I JUST WANTED TO CLARIFY A LOT
OF THESE CHANGES WERE NOT
THINGS THAT WE INITIALLY WERE
PROPOSING OR THINKING ABOUT
GIVEN THAT SOME OF THE
DISCUSSION TONIGHT I THINK
WOULD BE HELPFUL FOR US TO
PROBABLY IF IT WOULD BE
SOMETHING THAT THE COMMISSION
WOULD CONSIDER TO TABLE THIS
LET US GO AND HAVE SOME
DISCUSSIONS ABOUT HOW SOME
OF THESE THINGS WHAT THE IMPACT
OF THESE THINGS WOULD BE AND
SEE WHETHER THERE ARE THINGS
SEE WHAT SEE WHAT WE CAN FIND
OUT.
I MEAN TO YOUR POINT, WE HAVE
NO IDEA ABOUT THE CAPACITY
OF THE SUBSTATION TO PROVIDE
FOR ELECTRIFICATION OF WHATEVER
USES GO IN THERE OR YOU KNOW,
WE CERTAINLY HAVEN'T DISCUSSED
WITH EXISTING OWNERS THE
POTENTIAL THAT THEY HAVE TO
REBUILD THEIR THEIR EXISTING
BUILDINGS TO SOME OF THESE
STANDARDS YOU'VE DISCUSSED
TONIGHT.
SO I THINK IT WOULD BE OUR
PREFERENCE TO HAVE SOME TIME TO
GO BACK.
THINK ABOUT THIS, COME BACK
NEXT MONTH, TELL YOU WHAT WE
CAN AND CANNOT DO AND SEE IF
THE COMMISSION MUST MOVE
FORWARD.
OH, SORRY TO THAT POINT.
I THINK I WOULD SECOND THAT
BECAUSE I THINK WITH SOME
OF THE CHANGES THAT MOST
OF THESE ARE NO BRAINERS BUT I
WOULD LIKE TO GO IN A LITTLE
BIT MORE DEPTH ON AND AGAIN SEE
HOW THAT AFFECTS BECAUSE MOST
OF OUR PUDS LIKE WE SAY, ARE
DEALING WITH LIKE A NEW PARCEL
BASICALLY OR A NEW BUILDING AND
THIS HAS ALL THESE EXISTING
USERS.
I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
HOWEVER, IF IF THAT IS THE WILL
THE COMMISSION AS FAR AS
ELECTRIFICATION THAT HOW CAN I
HOW CAN WE WRITE THAT IN THERE
THAT WE DON'T CREATE EITHER
NONCONFORMITY OR LIMIT THINGS
TOO MUCH SO THAT'S MY THOUGHT.
UNDERSTOOD.
SO COMMISSIONER APRON'S I JUST
WANT TO MAKE SURE I UNDERSTAND
EVERYTHING THERE IS GOING TO BE
NONCONFORMING AND A LOT OF WAYS
RIGHT.
NO THERE WILL BE NO NOTHING
WILL BE FOOL ONCE WE CHANGE THE
THE EXISTING THINGS WILL BE
NONCONFORMING.
WELL I THINK YOU'LL WANT TO
SOMEONE WILL WANT TO GO BACK
AND LOOK THROUGH AND BE VERY
CLEAR ABOUT WHAT THE NEW
STANDARDS ARE AND HOW AND WHAT
THEY APPLY TO.
AND FOR ALL THE CHANGES I DON'T
THINK WE'D BE CREATING A
NONCONFORMITY THAT WELL LIKE
YOU CURRENTLY PROPOSE.
YEAH, THE GOAL WOULD BE NOT
TO
BE ANY MORE.
WE'VE EXPANDED SETBACKS FOR
THAT BUT WE I DON'T THINK
LOOKING THROUGH WHAT WE'VE
PROPOSED I DID THINK WE THAT
PREVIOUSLY THAT I DON'T THINK
WE'VE CREATED ANY NONCONFORMIST
AS IT STANDS NOW.
AGAIN, HOWEVER, I HAVE TO GO
THROUGH THIS PANEL.
THERE'S A MEDICAL I THINK
STREET FACING PARKING WOULD BE
THE ONE THING THAT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT TONIGHT THAT
WOULD BE PRETTY SAD FOR THE
CORRECT I MEAN THERE COULD BE A
SEPARATE YEAH.
BUT I AGREE THAT THIS IS I
ALREADY THOUGHT WE WERE DOING
THAT AND I THOUGHT THAT WAS
JUST PART OF THE PROCESS WAS
ACCEPTING IN ORDER TO DO THIS
KIND OF FUNNY THING.
WE'RE CHANGING APD MULTIPLE
PUZZLES, SOME OF WHICH ARE
DEVELOPED AND SOME THAT
PRODUCING NONCONFORMING WOULD
WOULD BE PART OF THAT.
I WAS COMFORTABLE WITH THAT.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT'S
SOMETHING I SHOULD BE ALARMED
BY THEN MAYBE I WOULD WANT TO
KNOW THAT WE CAN HAVE A BETTER
IF THIS IS INDEED POSTPONED.
OBVIOUSLY I'M GOING TO LOOK
INTO THE ISSUE OF THE NOW AND
HOW THAT AFFECTS SOME OF THE
IMPACT BECAUSE I CERTAINLY
WASN'T INDICATING THAT I
THOUGHT THE EXISTING BUILDINGS
NEEDED TO BE RETROFIT TO BECOME
ELECTRIFIED.
IT WAS JUST NEW CONSTRUCTION.
YEAH, OK, BASED ON THE
DISCUSSION HERE AT THE TABLE OK
I BELIEVE I'M LOOKING FOR A
MOTION THEN TO POSTPONE A MOVE
TO POSTPONE THIS TO THE SECOND
DAY OF PLANNING COMMISSION IN
OCTOBER THE 17TH I AND I THINK
WE DO A VOTE RIGHT JUST A
SHOWERHEADS COHAN'S ALL RIGHT
UNIMPOSED OK HERE BY THIS IS
POSTPONED TO OCTOBER 17TH.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONERS.
APPRECIATE IT.
YEP.
OK IT NINE FIFTEEN.
HOW IS EVERYONE DOING ON
ENERGY.
SHOULD WE KEEP ON IT.
ALL RIGHT WE ARE MOVING ON TO
SECTION C REGULAR BUSINESS.
I'M GOING TO INTRODUCE A
PETITION 1710 JUVONEN ROAD
VILLAGE VANGUARD ROMANTIC'S I
PLAN ON REZONING FOR CITY
COUNCIL APPROVAL.
THANK YOU AGAIN AN AMENDMENT TO
THE APPROVED PLAN THAT INCLUDES
REZONING OF TWO PARCELS FROM
TOWNSHIP TO HOUR FOR A
MULTIFAMILY RESIDENTIAL AND AN
ADDITIONAL TWO HUNDRED TWENTY
RESIDENTIAL UNITS ALONG DVORIN
WITHIN THE MELODIES PARK AREA
AND ADJACENT PARKING THE TOTAL
UNITS PROPOSED WILL BE SIX FOUR
UNITS ON THE SEVENTY EIGHT
POINT FIVE ACRE SITE.
THE PARCELS TO BE ZONED ARE
TWENTY FIVE TWENTY AND TWENTY
FIVE FORTY PONTIAC TRAIL.
THE TOTAL AREA OF THE REZONING
IS FIVE POINT NINE ACRE STAFF
RECOMMENDATION IS AN APPROVAL
AND WE WILL START WITH
PETITIONER PRESENTATION.
WELCOME.
THANK YOU.
WELCOME BACK.
I CAME BACK TO SEE YOU AGAIN
TONIGHT WHEN I WAS IN
BROTHERTOWN SIX NINE ZERO FIVE
TELEGRAPH ROAD.
I SEE A LOT OF FAMILIAR FACES.
HELLO GOOD TO SEE YOU AGAIN.
SO TONIGHT YES WE'RE HERE AND I
HAD ALLUDED TO THIS BACK WHEN I
SAW YOU LAST NIGHT.
I'M THINKING WAS LAST YEAR
ALREADY TIME FLIES THAT WE COME
BACK WITH PLAN AMENDMENT FOR
THE REMAINING PORTION OF THE
VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR WHICH WAS
A PREVIOUSLY APPROVED EXCUSE ME
FOR FOUR HUNDRED AND FORTY FOUR
FOR EIGHTY FOUR HOMES ON I CAN
DO SO WE CAN SKIP TO THE NEXT
I'M TRYING TO SAVE THIS
PROPERTY.
I DON'T KNOW WHY I THINK YOU
CAN GO TO UNDER REVIEW THAT ON
TOP LEFT YOU I GOT THE A BUT NO
NO NO NO SORRY THERE'S A LAG.
YES REMOTE I THINK THAT'S WHAT
WE WANT.
THERE YOU GO.
OKAY THAT'S BETTER.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
OH YES.
YEAH IT'S A LITTLE I HAVE TO
SCROLL UP A LITTLE BIT BUT
PERFECT SO JUST GO QUICKLY
BECAUSE I KNOW YOU'RE ALL
FAMILIAR WITH THE PROJECT QUITE
A BIT BUT THE VILLAGE OF ANN
AND WE ARE DEVELOPING IT IN
CONJUNCTION WITH DTN, OUR
PARTNERS ON THE PROJECT.
IT'S A LARGE SITE OBVIOUSLY YOU
ALL KNOW WE HAD A LOT
OF CHALLENGES TO BRING THE
PROJECT TO FRUITION TOOK A LOT
OF TIME AND EFFORT AND SUPPORT
AND HELP FROM YOU, HELP FROM
THE CITY COUNCIL AND YOU KNOW,
WE APPRECIATE WE'RE VERY HAPPY
WITH WHERE WE'RE AT AGAIN, THIS
IS REALLY THAT LAST STEP IN THE
PROCESS AS WE HAD BEEN UPFRONT
ABOUT THAT FROM THE BEGINNING
THE SITE OVERALL WE REALLY
CALLED THE VILLAGE DEVELOPER
BECAUSE WE REALLY BELIEVE IT IS
A VILLAGE.
IT'S A CONCEPT WITH A LOT
OF DIFFERENT TYPES OF HOUSING
OPTIONS RANGING FROM THE
REQUEST HERE TONIGHT.
SIX HUNDRED EIGHTY FIVE SQUARE
FEET UP ABOUT EIGHTEEN HUNDRED
FIFTY SQUARE FEET, MULTIPLE
BEDROOM TYPES, THAT SORT
OF THING.
SO YOU'RE GOING TO SEE A LOT
OF DIFFERENT TYPES AND REAL
DIVERSITY OF HOME BUYERS AND
RENTERS.
SO THERE IS A FOR SALE IN THE
RENTAL COMPONENT TONIGHT.
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IS THE
JUST AROUND FIVE ACRES OF THE
SITE WHICH IS OVER ABOUT ALMOST
80 ACRE.
SO IT'S A VERY OBVIOUSLY SMALL
PORTION OF IT.
WE REALLY ALWAYS ENVISIONED AS
YOU KNOW, THE BRINGING IN THIS
ADDITIONAL AREA AND THE SITE
PLAN AND IN FACT OUR STORMWATER
PLAN HAD BEEN SIZED FOR IT.
SO THIS WAS ALWAYS SOMETHING
THAT WE HAD HAD PLANNED.
I WANT TO GO INTO DETAIL
OBVIOUSLY IN A MINUTE HERE YOUR
MASTER PLAN DENSITY DESIGNATION
SEVEN TO TEN UNITS PER ACRE.
IT IS ZONED OUT FOR A WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF THE TWO PARCELS
RECENTLY ANNEXED, WHICH IS WHY
WE'RE DELAYED.
WE WERE DELAYED IN BRINGING
THIS ADDITIONAL PORTION IN
FRONT OF YOU TONIGHT.
BUT AFTER A WE ARE BY RIGHT IN
THAT HOUR FOR A ZONING DISTRICT
WE HAVE NOT ASKED FOR ANYTHING.
THIS IS NOT A PARTY WITH ANY
PUBLIC BENEFIT REQUIREMENTS.
WE DID HAVE A VARIANCE WE DON'T
NEED IT NOW IF WE CAN GET
TONIGHT'S SITE ONE OF IT
APPROVED WHICH AGAIN WE ALWAYS
ENVISIONED FOR TONIGHT RENTAL
UNITS IN THIS AMENDMENT IS A
TOTAL I WOULD BRING THE TOTAL
UP TO 600 FOR TOTAL GUN FOR
SALE AND FOR THESE JUST AROUND
EIGHT UNITS PER ACRE WHICH IS
RIGHT IN THAT SEVEN OR TEN BAND
THE UNIT SIZES TONIGHT AND THE
REQUEST THERE'S AN EIGHTY FIVE
SQUARE FEET FOR A ONE BEDROOM
AND JUST OVER A THOUSAND SQUARE
FEET TO FOUR TWO BEDROOM UNITS.
IT IS A STACKED PRODUCT.
THREE STORIES AND OVERALL OPEN
SPACE WHICH IS VERY IT IS SIXTY
FIVE PERCENT BUT I THINK IT
REALLY ADDS TO KIND OF WHAT
WHAT WILL DRAW PEOPLE INTO THIS
THIS COMMUNITY.
SO WE HAVE KIND OF ALLUDED TO
IT.
IT'S TO MANY OVERALL PLAN FOR
THE VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR AND
WE'RE ASKING FOR JUST SOME
SPECIFIC THINGS THE ADDITIONAL
HUNDRED TWENTY GET IT FOR THIS
PORTION THAT IS THE AREA ON
DIVIN AND THESE AREAS HAVE
ACTUALLY BEEN ALREADY RESOUND A
PORTION THAT WAS PREVIOUSLY
PREVIOUSLY THOUGHT OUR WAY WE
HAD RESIGNED THE OTHER PERSON
DUVAN I THINK IT WAS PROBABLY
OFFICIAL EARLIER THIS YEAR OR
LATE LAST YEAR THE REZONING
REQUEST THAT IS IN FRONT OF YOU
IS FOR THE TWO PARCELS THAT WE
HAD ANNEXED IN RECENTLY AND
THAT'S IMPORTANT BECAUSE THE
DELAY IN BRINGING YOU THESE ONE
HUNDRED TWENTY UNITS ON THE
PLAN REALLY SPECIFICALLY WAS
THE LENGTH OF TIME IT TOOK FOR
THOSE TWO PARCELS ON PIONEER
TRAIL TO GET AN EXTENT.
IT'S JUST A LONG PROCESS AS
WELL.
WELL, NO SO WE MOVE FORWARD
WITH THE REST OF THE PROJECT
KNOWING THAT AFTER WE GET
ANNEXED FOR THOSE TWO PARCELS
WHICH IS OFFICIAL NOW WE COME
BACK IN AND THOSE ARE THE TEN
ACRES I'M PIONEER TRAIL.
THE REASON WE DID THAT FOR
DENSITY ALTHOUGH I THINK WE
WOULD HAVE MET THE DENSITY
WITHOUT BUT REALLY THE OPEN
SPACE THE OPEN SPACE IS SIXTY
FIVE PERCENT.
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO DO
WITHOUT BUYING ADDITIONAL LAND.
SO WE HAD IDENTIFIED A LONG
TIME AGO JUST TOOK TIME TO GET
THE ANNEXATION.
SO THAT REALLY IS THE PURPOSE
MEANING YOUR OPEN SPACE.
GUILLAUME'S MAJORITY OF THE
SITE REALLY DOES REMAIN THE
SAME.
WE'VE MADE SOME BUT MINOR
IMPROVEMENTS TO THE SOUTH
SOUTHERN PORTION WHICH TRYING
TO PLAN AND THOSE IMPROVEMENTS
ARE REALLY KIND OF JUST
REALIGNING OF THE BUILDINGS,
CHANGING SOME OF THE ACCESS
AROUND THE CLUBHOUSE AND AN
ADDITION OF THE BUILDING PATH
SYSTEM ON THE FORMER LANDFILL
WHICH OF COURSE ONE OF THOSE
CHALLENGES ON THE SITE AS FAR
AS WE CAN GET THROUGH EAGLE.
THE OTHER THING I'LL POINT OUT
ON THE SITE PLAN WHICH I WE'RE
VERY EXCITED ABOUT IS WE'RE
ADDING VERISIGN PARK AMENITY TO
THE SITE THAT PARK LANDSCAPED
AREAS PATHWAY'S COMMUNITY
GARDENS, THAT SORT OF THING.
SO WE'RE VERY EXCITED.
WE ALWAYS KIND OF THOUGHT
OF THAT AS THIS IS AN AREA
WHERE WE CAN DO SOMETHING
REALLY SPECIAL ON OUR SITE.
SO AND AS I MENTIONED, THIS
DOES THERE'S SO MANY VARIANTS
THAT WE ALREADY RECEIVED.
SO THE PROJECT HIGHLIGHTS I'M
JUST GOING TO CLICK ON THIS.
YOU KNOW, WE'VE GOT A MIX
OF RESIDENTIAL LAND USES.
WE DO HAVE I BELIEVE QUITE A
BIT OF GREEN ENERGY INITIATIVES
THAT SOLAR STREETLIGHTS JUST TO
BRING EVERYBODY BACK UP TO
SPEED DENHA PIECE OF MODERN
INFRASTRUCTURE, A CLUBHOUSE,
SOLAR PANELS, ENERGY EFFICIENT
APPLIANCES AND WE DID AGREE TO
THE FOR SALE PORTION BEING ALL
ELECTRIC AGAIN THAT WAS NOT A
REQUIREMENT BUT WE FELT THAT
WAS VERY IMPORTANT TO DO.
YOU KNOW, WE'VE HAD A LOT
OF CONVERSATIONS WITH YOU WITH
THE CITY COUNCIL AND ALSO WITH
QUITE A BIT OF THE RESIDENTS
OF YOUR CITY.
WE'VE HAD A LOT OF PRIVATE
CONVERSATIONS AND I THINK WE'VE
REALLY HAD A LOT OF GOOD
DISCOURSE BETWEEN OUR TWO
PLANTS.
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT DTN AND
ROBERTSON BECAUSE YOU'VE HEARD
ME SAY IT ALL.
NEXT SLIDE IS THE CONTEXT PLAN.
EVERYBODY'S FAMILIAR WITH I
HOPE.
BUT AGAIN, DEVAR AND PONTIAC
TRAIL THE THINGS THAT MAYBE YOU
MAY HAVE FORGOTTEN.
WE ARE PROVIDING A NEW ACCESS
TO LESLEY PARK.
THE ONLY ACCESS RIGHT NOW IS
FROM THE DESIGN OF THE PARK
SUBDIVISION WHICH IS REALLY
KIND OF A PRIVATE ENTRANCE.
WE HAVE PRIVATE ROADS BUT THEY
ARE OPEN.
THEY'LL BE PUBLIC EASEMENT SO
THEY'LL FUNCTION LIKE CITY
ROADS.
WE'LL JUST MAINTAIN THE THROUGH
OUR AWAY AND OUR LEASING
OPERATION THE MAINTENANCE ON
THOSE ROADS.
I THINK THAT'S A WIN WIN FOR
THE CITY AS A MATTER OF FACT
AND ALSO TO THE NORTH TO OLSEN
PARK.
SO WE REALLY LIKE HOW THAT
CONNECTS TO THE TWO PARKS.
THAT'S BEEN SOMETHING WE'VE
WE'VE REALLY LIKED FROM THE
VERY BEGINNING AND YOU CAN SEE
WE'VE GOT OUR FOUR AND OUR FOUR
BASICALLY
ALL AROUND US.
SO WE REALLY DO FIT IN IN THAT
RESPECT.
THE NEXT SLIDE PLEASE MATT.
SO THIS IS THE OVERALL PLAN.
IT'S BASICALLY ALMOST IDENTICAL
TO WHAT YOU'D SEEN BEFORE WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF THE FOUR
BUILDINGS ALONG DEVAR THAT'S
ONE HUNDRED TWENTY UNITS FOR
THIRTY UNIT BUILDINGS ALL
SURFACE PART AND THEN
ESSENTIALLY YOU CAN SEE THOSE
NATURE TRAILS.
I THINK I'D PROBABLY SHOWN YOU
THAT IN A PREVIOUS ITERATION
SAYING WE DON'T KNOW IF YOU
ALLOW US.
THEY HAVE GIVEN US THE THUMBS
UP BUT I DON'T HAVE A PERMIT
FOR IT SO WE'RE STILL WORKING
THROUGH THAT BUT WE BELIEVE
THAT WE'LL BE ABLE TO MEET ALL
OF THE REQUIREMENTS TO PUT
NATURE TRAILS WHICH BE OPEN TO
THE PUBLIC.
I GET A BETTER CONNECTION FROM
OLSON TO THAT PARK AND THEN ON
THE SOUTH SIDE IF YOU CAN
SCROLL DOWN A LITTLE WE HAVEN'T
TOUCHED ANY OF THE TIME ON THE
FORCE SALE PORTION THE THE
APARTMENTS ON THE SOUTH SIDE WE
JUST KIND OF CLEANED UP SOME
OF THE DIMENSIONS OF THOSE
BUILDINGS ARE LOCATED JUST TO
MAKE IT MORE EFFICIENT AND
IMPROVE THE PARKING AROUND THE
CLUBHOUSE AND THEN I THINK THE
MOST EXCITING PART IS AS YOU GO
WEST ALONG WITH THE APARTMENTS
ARE WE'VE HAD THAT COMMUNITY
AMENITY.
I DON'T THINK THAT SHOWS UP
VERY WELL BUT WE'RE VERY
EXCITED ABOUT THAT.
SO THERE'LL BE SOME NATURAL
AREAS, SOME YOU KNOW, SPECIAL
SEATING.
SIHANOUK'S ON AND SOME OF THE
GRASSY AREAS AS I MENTIONED
BEFORE, OUR OUR OUR LAMPLIGHTER
GEEKS OUT ON THERE.
SO HE REALLY HE REALLY GOT A I
THINK GAVE US A VISION THAT WE
WERE HOPING FOR ON AND THEN YOU
CAN SEE A LITTLE BIT OF A
COMMUNITY AREA VISIBLE WITH
SOME COMMUNITY GARDENS.
SO THAT'S SOMETHING THAT I
THINK IN THE COMMUNITY OF THIS
LARGE IS SOMETHING THAT THAT I
THINK IS REALLY PRODUCTIVE FOR
THE PROJECT AND WAS A LOT
OF OPEN SPACE.
YOU CAN SEE ALL THE WAY
UNNATURAL THAT WILL STAY OPEN
AT THIS POINT OTHER THAN THERE
WILL BE A SINGLE FAMILY HOMES
THAT REMAIN IN THAT THAT'S
ALWAYS BEEN PART OF OUR PLAN
THERE AND THAT WILL STAY WITH
THE SELLER.
I'LL YOU UP QUITE A BIT
OF WETLANDS OF COURSE WHERE I
THINK OUR WETLAND WE ONLY HAVE
A WETLAND PERMIT AND IT WAS IT
WAS LIKE POINT ZERO FOUR ACRES
SO WE STAYED OUT OF THAT AS
MUCH AS POSSIBLE SO QUICKLY ON
THAT.
BUT YOU'VE SEEN IT SO THAT'S
THE OVERALL PLAN.
I JUST WANTED TO POINT OUT SOME
OF THE IMPROVEMENTS THAT WE'VE
MADE THE NEXT SLIDE JUST AS A
HIGHLIGHT OF THE NEW AREA AGAIN
IT'S CLOSE TO THE CURRENT ROAD
WHICH TAKES AWAY THAT VARIANCE
THAT WE'VE RECEIVED.
YOU CAN SEE THE ELEVATIONS
THERE IT IS IT IS A STACKED
PRODUCT.
THEY ARE ALL RENTAL UNITS
SURFACE PART.
WE'RE MEETING YOUR YOUR NEW
E.V. PARKING CODES WHICH WE
WENT THROUGH THROUGHOUT LUNCH.
WE'RE PLANNING AND YOU CAN SEE
THERE'S KIND OF THAT LITTLE
LINE THERE THAT IS PART OF THE
LANDFILL AREA.
WE DO HAVE A METHANE TRENCH I
THINK I TALKED ABOUT THAT LAST
TIME WHICH HAS BEEN APPROVED BY
EAGLE KIND OF CUTS UP IN THIS
AREA BUT OF COURSE AWAY FROM
FROM THE UNITS THEMSELVES WE
ARE PROVIDING QUITE A SCREEN TO
THE WEST SIDE WHERE THERE ARE
SOME EXISTING HOMES.
WE'VE HAD A LOT
OF CONVERSATIONS WITH THEM.
WE'VE WORKED WITH THOSE
NEIGHBORS ON A NEW EASEMENT SO
THEY CAN ACCESS THIS NEW ROAD
THERE.
SO I BELIEVE WE'VE TWEAKED THE
SITE PLAN TO YOU CAN SEE PUT
SOME TREES SO THEY DON'T
BUILDINGS RIGHT AGAINST RIGHT
AWAY FROM THAT ACROSS FROM
THEIR ENTRANCE.
THEY'RE SO WE'VE WORKED CLOSELY
WITH THEM AS WELL.
SO THAT'S THE NEW SITE PLAN
AREA.
THE NEXT SLIDE AGAIN IS THAT A
LITTLE BIT OF A BLOW UP ON THAT
COMMUNITY PARK COMMUNITY AND
I'M HAPPY TO GO INTO DETAIL ON
SOME OF THIS BUT I THINK YOU
CAN TELL THIS WILL BE A GREAT
ADDITION TO THE PROJECT OVERALL
AND THEN THE NEXT SLIDE AND I
SHOWED YOU THIS BEFORE SO
NOTHING'S REALLY CHANGED.
I JUST WE WE DID HAVE A LOT I
THINK A LOT OF THINGS THAT WE
ADDED TO THIS PROJECT THAT
MAYBE WE DON'T TYPICALLY DO
JUST BECAUSE IT WAS SUCH A
LARGE SITE.
SO FIRST AND FOREMOST THIS IS
RECYCLING CONTAMINATE LANDFILL
.
IT'S BEEN SITTING THERE.
THERE'S A REASON WHY THERE'S 70
80 ACRES AND OTHER ACTUALLY WE
DROPPED THE ONE SO I THINK I
SAID THAT BEFORE SO IT'S OKAY
BUT WE GOT WE GOT A HANDLE ON
IT.
WE'RE READY TO GET STARTED.
OF COURSE THE ELECTRIC
COMPONENT WHICH I KNOW WAS VERY
IMPORTANT TO YOU IN THOSE
CONNECTIONS TO LESLIE PARK.
SO I WENT THROUGH THAT FAST BUT
I THINK YOU PROBABLY APPRECIATE
THAT AND I AM HAPPY TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS YOU MAY HAVE.
THANK YOU.
WE WILL GO TO STAFF
PRESENTATION.
MR. KOWALSKI.
YEAH, GOOD.
OVERALL I MAKE YOU FEEL GOOD
EVENING AGAIN.
I DON'T REALLY HAVE A LOT TO
ADD.
INTERESTINGLY THOUGH IT'S NOT
NECESSARILY A SMALL APARTMENT
WITH MY PROJECT WITH ADDING ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY UNITS IT'S
IT'S KIND OF A SMALL PART
OF THE OVERALL SITE.
SO AS FAR AS LIKE A SITE PLAN
REVIEW THERE WASN'T YOU KNOW
THERE WASN'T AS WAS MENTIONED
THERE THERE'S NOT A LOT
OF CHANGES ELSEWHERE ON THE
SITE.
THERE'S A COUPLE OF TWEAKS THE
BUILDING LAYOUTS AND PARKING
ARRANGEMENTS OBVIOUSLY THAT WAS
ALL LOOKED AT AS STAFF.
WE LOOK AT THE ENTIRE SITE AND
AGAIN BECAUSE EXCUSE ME IT'S
ONE SITE PLAN SO WE HAD TO LOOK
AT EVERYTHING AGAIN SO WE DID
THAT.
BUT AS FAR AS FOCUSING IN ON
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY UNITS
THERE AGAIN THERE WASN'T A LOT
TO REALLY ANALYZE THERE.
IT'S HEAVILY TREED BUT A LOT
OF THEM ARE NOT LANDMARK TREES.
THERE'S A LOT OF I MEAN I HATE
CONNIE CHUNG NECESSARILY BUT
THERE'S NOT A LOT
OF NECESSARILY HIGH QUALITY
FEATURES RIGHT IN THAT AREA AND
OF COURSE EVERYTHING'S
MITIGATED AS REQUIRED BY
CODE AS WAS MENTIONED.
BUT JUST TO REITERATE, THERE IS
A REZONING INVOLVED WITH THIS
AS WELL.
SO THIS IS A PIPELINE THAT WILL
GO ULTIMATELY TO CITY COUNCIL
FOR FINAL APPROVAL.
THE REZONING OF THOSE PARCELS
ALONG PONTIAC TRAIL BASICALLY
AS WAS MENTIONED, THOSE ARE
ANNEXED TO GET THE THE LAND
AREA BASICALLY TO ENABLE THESE
UNITS TO BE ADDED ALONG FAR AND
THAT WAS THAT NULLIFIED
BASICALLY THE VARIANCE THAT THE
PETITIONER HAD TO GET
PREVIOUSLY BECAUSE OF THE MAX
EXCEEDING THE SET BACK IN THAT
AREA.
SO THAT NOW GOES AWAY AGAIN AS
FAR AS ANY OTHER ITEMS WORTHY
OF POINTING OUT OF ALL THE
EXISTING SUSTAINABLE ELEMENTS.
AGAIN, WE JUST REITERATE THOSE
ARE ANYTHING THAT WAS PLEDGED
FOR THE FIRST PROJECT AS FAR AS
THE OTHER SOLAR LIGHTS AND ALL
THOSE KIND OF THINGS FOR STREET
LIGHTING THAT GOES CONSISTENT
WITH THIS WITH THIS NEW AREA
THAT'S BEING DEVELOPED AS WELL
.
AND I THINK THAT I THINK THAT
KIND OF WRAPS UP REALLY MY
PRESENTATION I THINK AT THIS
TIME AGAIN JUST REITERATE PLANT
AND REZONING BEFORE YOU HERE
TONIGHT.
THANK YOU, MR. KOWALSKI.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO A PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PERSONS TO SPEAK UP AT THREE
MINUTES ABOUT THE PROPOSED
VILLAGE ANN ARBOR MELATI PLAN
WILL FIRST CALL AN INDIVIDUAL'S
PRESENCE ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK DURING THIS PUBLIC
HEARING REMOTELY.
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE OR STAR
SIX.
IT'S LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE
THE RAISED HAND FEATURE
OF VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS.
PLEASE CALL 877 THREE FIVE TO
FOUR SEVEN AND INTERMEDIATED
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
ALSO THE CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND USING THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER AND MY NAME IF AVAILABLE
FOR THOSE ACCESSING THROUGH THE
WEB LINK WE'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOST IS ALLOWING YOU TO SPEAK
AND ONE SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO
A QUIET AREA AND MUTE ANY
TELEVISION OR BACKGROUND SOUND
SO THAT WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME ADDRESS
AT THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
HELLO.
WELCOME.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE A MICROPHONE OK MY NAME
IS RICH FINE I LIVE AT SIX ONE
D'WAYNE COURT.
I'M A MEMBER OF THE ANN ARBOR
CHAPTER THE CITIZENS CLIMATE
LOBBY.
I LEAD THEIR BUILDING
ELECTRIFICATION AND EFFICIENCY
ACTION TEAM BACK IN JULY
OF LAST YEAR YOU WERE TOLD IN A
COMMISSION MEETING THAT
OPERATING COSTS FOR HEAT PUMPS
WERE MUCH MORE THAN FOR GAS.
YES, IN ANN ARBOR UTILITY COSTS
FOR HEAT PUMPS ARE HIGHER.
IT'S DUE TO OUR HIGH ELECTRIC
RATES AND OUR LOW GAS RATES.
BUT THE BURDEN TO THE RENTERS
IS MUCH LESS THAN WHAT YOU WERE
WHAT YOU HEARD.
I APOLOGIZE FOR GOING BACK ON
THIS.
ALL RIGHT.
NEXT TIME I'LL BE DIGITAL AT
THE DATA TABLES THAT YOU HAVE
RECEIVED SHOW UTILITY COST
DIFFERENCES BETWEEN GAS AND
ELECTRIC FOR A FOREIGN TOWN
HOME AT THE VILLAGE OF ANN
ARBOR.
THIS GRAPH SHOWS THE COST
DIFFERENCES PER MONTH BETWEEN
GAS AND ELECTRIC.
THESE CALCULATIONS ARE FROM
FOUR DIFFERENT ENERGY ANALYZES
THE MAIN POINT IS THAT THE
CONSISTENCY ACROSS THREE OF THE
FOUR ANALYSIS INDICATES THAT
ADDITIONAL UTILITY COSTS FOR
USING A HEAT PUMP OVER GAS IN
THESE TOWN TOWNHOMES IS LIKELY
AROUND TWENTY ONE TO THIRTY ONE
DOLLARS PER MONTH RATHER THAN A
MUCH HIGHER NINETY THREE
DOLLARS PER MONTH SHOWN IN A
REPORT PROVIDED AT THAT JULY
TWENTY TWENTY COMMISSION
MEETING NOW RELATING THIS TO
THE HUNDRED AND TWENTY
APARTMENTS AT THE VILLAGE A
PRELIMINARY ANALYSIS FOR ITS
TWO BEDROOM APARTMENTS AND I
WILL REPEAT PRELIMINARY SHOWS A
COST DIFFERENCE IS LIKELY TO
AVERAGE AROUND TEN DOLLARS PER
MONTH.
YES, EVERY COUNTS FOR RENTER
BUT WE'RE SEVENTY ONE PERCENT
OF THE CITY VOTED FOR CLIMATE
MILLAGE.
WE BELIEVE THAT MOST ARE
WILLING TO PAY A LITTLE EXTRA
FOR CLEANER HEAT.
IT'S A VERY SMALL PERCENTAGE
OF THE RUN.
ROBERTSON BROTHERS SHOULD ALSO
CONSIDER THAT WHEN THE PUBLIC
DISCLOSURE COMPONENT OF A TWO
ZERO IS GREEN RENTAL HOUSING
PROGRAM IS IMPLEMENTED, GAS
WILL BE A MARKETING LIABILITY.
OTHER DEVELOPMENTS ARE BEING
BUILT WITH ELECTRIC.
WHY CAN'T THIS WE HAVE ALL HAVE
TO START MOVING
OUT OF OUR
COMFORT ZONE TO MAKE CHANGES
THAT MUST BE MADE.
THE PASSIVITY HAS TO STOP.
WE REQUEST THAT THE VILLAGE TO
PROJECT I'M DONE OR NOT
PERMITTED TO MOVE FORWARD
WITHOUT FURTHER REVIEW OF THE
POTENTIAL FOR IT TO BE ALL
ELECTRIC OR UNTIL THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THE COUNCIL
DEVELOP A PLAN THAT
INCENTIVIZES ELECTRIC OR
OTHERWISE.
EVERTZ NEW CONSTRUCT AND WITH
GAS.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT?
YES PLEASE
.
I AM DR. LARRY JOHNSON TWENTY
ONE TWENTY EIGHT WALLINGFORD IN
ANN ARBOR WARD THREE I AM A
PROFESSOR EMERITUS AND YOU HAVE
A MEDICAL SCHOOL HERE TO SPEAK
AGAINST THE PLAN OF ROBERTSON
BROTHERS TO INCORPORATE GAS
FURNACES AND GAS WATER HEATERS
IN THE VILLAGES OF ANN ARBOR.
I HAVE NO CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
.
MY COMMENTS TODAY ARE DIRECTED
TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
TO ROBERTSON BROTHERS HAS A
POSITION KNOWLEDGEABLE ABOUT
AIR POLLUTION AND CLIMATE
CHANGE.
I'M VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
BAD HEALTH CONSEQUENCES FROM
CLIMATE CHANGE CAUSED BY THE
BURNING OF GAS.
I'M ALSO CONCERNED ABOUT OTHER
CONSEQUENT SOURCES OF CLIMATE
CHANGE INCLUDING DIRECT HEAT
EFFECTS ON HUMANS, EXTREME
WEATHER EVENTS, EXTINCTION
OF ANIMAL AND PLANT LIFE.
VIRTUALLY NO EDUCATED PERSON
DOUBTS THE EXISTENCE OR
SERIOUSNESS OF CLIMATE CHANGE,
BUT RECENT EVENTS IN THE
NEWS HIGHLIGHT HOW SERIOUS THIS
IS.
THIS SUMMER WAS THE HOTTEST
SUMMER EVER BY A LARGE MARGIN
THE OCEANS ARE THE HOTTEST EVER
BY A SUBSTANTIAL MARGIN IN THE
PAST MONTH WE'VE SEEN THREE
SEVERE STORMS WITH A PROBABLE
RELATIONSHIP CLIMATE CHANGE
INCLUDING STORM DANIELLE WHICH
HAS TAKEN OVER 11000 LIVES.
EFFECTS IN MICHIGAN HAVE
INCLUDED FLOODING IN DETROIT
AND THREATS TO MICHIGAN
AGRICULTURE.
ATMOSPHERIC CO2 LEVELS ARE THE
HIGHEST EVER AT FOUR HUNDRED
SEVENTEEN PARTS PER MILLION AND
RISING STEADILY STRONG ACTIONS
ARE NEEDED.
AN AVERAGE OF EIGHT TO ZERO
PLAN IS A STRONG PLAN WITH A
REALISTIC CHANCE OF SUCCESS
PROVIDED HOMEOWNERS AND OTHER
INVOLVED PARTIES COOPERATE.
IT CALLS FOR MEASURES TO MAKE
AN AREA CARBON NEUTRAL BY 2030
IN TWENTY TWENTY TWO MILLION TO
FUND THIS PLAN PASSED WITH OVER
70 PERCENT OF VOTES IN FAVOR.
ROBERTSON'S PLAN NOT ONLY
DOESN'T COMPLY WITH A TWO ZERO
PLAN BUT IT'S AN INSULT TO THE
LEADERS OF AN ARBOR AND TO OUR
GOOD CITIZENS WHO STRONGLY
SUPPORT THIS PLAN WITH ITS GAS
FURNACES AND WATER HEATERS
EXCUSE ME THE PLAN OF ROBERTSON
BROTHERS APPEARS TO BE GEARED
TOWARD THEIR SHORT TERM PROFITS
BUT AGAINST THE LONG TERM
INTERESTS OF THEIR FUTURE
RESIDENTS AND THE PEOPLE OF ANN
ARBOR.
IN DOING SO THEY HAVE
UNDERESTIMATED THE PEOPLE
OF ANN ARBOR WHO TEND TO BE
SMART, CARING ABOUT THE
COMMUNITY AND CARING ABOUT THE
WORLD AROUND US AND IN ADDITION
TO FLYING IN THE FACE OF THE
EIGHT TO ZERO PLAN ROBERTSON
BROTHERS PROPOSAL TO USE 20TH
CENTURY HEATING AND COOLING
TECHNOLOGY WILL CONTRIBUTE TO
HEALTH PROBLEMS AND OUR AND OUR
CITIZENS AS WELL AS THE HEALTH
PROBLEMS OF CLIMATE CHANGE.
IT WILL LEAVE HOMEOWNERS PAYING
HIGHER MONTHLY COSTS IN THE
FUTURE.
CONCERNING THAT, BURNING GAS IS
LESS EFFICIENT THAN HEAT PUMPS
FOR HOME HEATING AND HOME
HEATING AND WATER HEATING ALSO
THAT GAS PRICES ARE
UNSUSTAINABLE AT THEIR PRESENT
LEVEL.
IT WILL LOWER THE LONG TERM
VALUE OF THESE HOMES BECAUSE
OF THEIR INEFFICIENT 20TH
CENTURY TECHNOLOGY.
I URGE THE COMMITTEE TO DO
EVERYTHING YOU CAN TO STEER
ROBERTSON BROTHERS IN A BETTER
DIRECTION WITH THIS PLAN.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO.
HELLO WELCOME AND MRS. SPITZ,
I'M A TAX PAYING CITY RESIDENT
EIGHT OR NINE JOHNNY WOODS
DRIVE.
THANK YOU FOR THIS OPPORTUNITY
TO SPEAK.
I APPRECIATE YOUR WORK THIS
SPRING I RETIRED FROM A THREE
COLLABORATIVE ARCHITECTURE
AFTER TWENTY FIVE YEARS WITH
SOME OF THE BEST SUSTAINABLE
DESIGNERS IN THE REGION FOR THE
PAST 13 YEARS I WORKED IN
PLANNING AND DESIGN AT ST.
JOE'S.
I RECENTLY STARTED A RETIREMENT
JOB FOR THE EIGHT TO TWENTY
THIRTY DISTRICT CONTINUING MY
WORK WITH JANE CULBERTSON WHO
I'M SURE MANY OF YOU KNOW I'M
AN ARTIST WITH A LIFELONG
PASSION FOR THE NATURAL WORLD.
I'M APPALLED BY THE FOLLY
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE BLIND TO THE
WORTH OF ALL OTHER SPECIES WITH
THIS HISTORY COMBINING SCIENCE,
ART AND INCLINATION, I'M HERE
TO BEG YOU TO DO THE RIGHT
THING ON PHASE TWO OF THE
VILLAGE PROJECT AND FURTHER AT
EVERY OPPORTUNITY PLEASE USE
YOUR POSITION TO HELP AND
FOSSIL FUEL REJECT THIS SITE
PLAN AMENDMENT UNTIL ALBERTSEN
BROTHERS AGREES TO AN ALL
ELECTRIC PLAN FOR ALL UNITS YOU
ARE NOT LOCKED INTO APPROVAL.
YOU COULD POSTPONE YOUR REQUEST
MORE INFORMATION OR SIMPLY VOTE
NO FOR ONE EXAMPLE OF MANY TO
MCDONALD AND ONION FLATS
ARCHITECTURE WHOSE TEAM HAS
CREATED DOZENS OF PHENOMENALLY
INSPIRED RING NET ZERO
MULTIFAMILY DEVELOPMENTS MANY
FOR AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
YOU DON'T BUILD AFFORDABLE
HOUSING WITH OVERLY COSTLY TECH
THE PROVEN TECHNOLOGY IS IN USE
RIGHT NOW WE ARE IN A CLIMATE
EMERGENCY NOT THE FUTURE RIGHT
NOW WE MUST STOP BUSINESS AS
USUAL.
YOU CAN MAKE THE SIMPLE CHOICE
TO INSIST THAT ALL NEW
DEVELOPMENTS BE BUILT ALL
ELECTRIC CITY COUNCIL RECOGNIZE
THE CLIMATE EMERGENCY
TREMENDOUS EFFORT HAS BEEN PUT
INTO THE INCREDIBLY AMBITIOUS
EIGHT ZERO PLAN.
IT'S NOT PERFECT BUT IT'S SUCH
AN EXCELLENT FRAMEWORK.
ANY NEW FOSSIL FUEL PLANS
NEGATE THIS WORK AND WE ARE NOT
MEETING THOSE AMBITIOUS GOALS.
I'M TOLD THE DEVELOPER PLANS TO
BUILD IN CAPACITY TO SWITCH
THESE APARTMENTS FROM GAS TO
ELECTRIC IN THE FUTURE WHEN
THESE APPLIANCES WILL LAST FROM
EIGHT TO TWENTY YEARS.
GAS APPLIANCES WORKING IN THIS
FIELD ALL MY LIFE I CAN TELL
YOU THAT SWITCH WON'T HAPPEN
BEFORE THAT IF YOU MUST SEE IT
ONLY IN TERMS OF DOLLARS.
LOOK AT THE LONG TERM COST.
THE FOSSIL FUEL DAMAGE IN THIS
PLAN WOULD DWARF ANY NEGLIGIBLE
COST OF THE ELECTRIC
ALTERNATIVES FINALLY BACK TO
EARTH I BELIEVE AT THIS
CRITICAL TIME IN HUMAN HISTORY
WE MUST RECHARGE OUR IMAGINED
NATION.
THERE ARE SO MANY ASTONISHING
INSPIRING EFFORTS UNDERWAY ALL
OVER THE WORLD TO IMPLEMENT
SOLUTIONS.
WE NEED ALL OF THESE EFFORTS.
WE HAVE TO SEARCH FOR THEM BOTH
AND ALIGN OUR IMAGINATIONS.
IT'S NOT TOO LATE.
WE CAN DO THIS BUT WE MUST DO
IT NOW.
THANK YOU
.
HELLO.
HELLO I'M DONALD.
LOVE IT TO EIGHTEEN WEST
KINGSLEE STREET.
I'M HERE TO VOICE MY OPPOSITION
TO THE USE OF NATURAL GAS IN
THE VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR PHASE
TWO I'D LIKE TO TELL YOU ABOUT
MY PERSONAL STORY AS TO WHY I
FEEL SO STRONGLY ABOUT THIS.
MY STORIES IN TWO CHAPTERS
CHAPTER ONE I MAY IF I HOSTED
THE FIRST ANNUAL AID TO CLIMATE
TEACH-IN AGENESIS AND ANN ARBOR
MAYOR CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR WAS
OUR OPENING SPEAKER.
PROFESSOR SHELLEY MILLER WAS
OUR CLOSING SPEAKER.
WE HAD SIX BREAKOUT SESSIONS
AND SIXTEEN TABLE BY LOCAL
CLIMATE ACTION ORGANIZATIONS.
WE WERE SPONSORED BY EIGHT
CONGREGATIONS BETH ISRAEL
CONGREGATION, BLUE OCEAN
CHURCH, FIRST PRESBYTERIAN
CHURCH, FIRST UNITARIAN
UNIVERSALIST CONGREGATION ST.
CAUSE EPISCOPAL CHURCH ST.
FRANCIS OF ASSISI PARISH TEMPLE
PART TIME AND ZION LUTHERAN
CHURCH.
ALL OF THESE CONGREGATIONS ARE
CONCERNED ABOUT CLIMATE CHANGE
AND THERE ARE CERTAINLY OTHERS
NOW HEARING THIS YOU MIGHT
THINK THAT I'M KNOWLEDGEABLE
ABOUT CLIMATE ACTION.
I'M NOT I'M A TOTAL NOVICE.
IT WAS ONLY 18 MONTHS AGO THAT
I REALLY GAVE THIS ANY THOUGHT
CHAPTER TO TWO YEARS AGO IN
TWENTY TWENTY ONE MY WIFE AND I
MOVED INTO ONE OF THE NEW
CONDOS IN KOREATOWN.
THERE ARE FIFTY ONE UNITS IN
THE BUILDING ALL WITH GAS HEAT
.
THERE'S THE POINT OF MY STORY
WHEN WE MOVED IN IN TWENTY
TWENTY I DIDN'T PAY ANY
ATTENTION TO A FEW USED TO HEAT
THE CONDOS.
IT WASN'T ON MY RADAR SCREEN
THEN I GOT INTERESTED IN
CLIMATE CHANGE AND I'M FRANKLY
HORRIFIED THAT I LIVE IN THIS
GAS POWERED CONDO.
IT'S A BEAUTIFUL BUILDING, A
GREAT LOCATION.
WE LOVE IT BUT I WISH I HAD
THOUGHT OF THIS BEFORE WE MOVED
.
MY POINT IS THAT MANY PEOPLE IN
THAT AREA WILL BE LIKE ME.
THE TWO HUNDRED FIFTY PEOPLE AT
MY TEACH-IN WILL BE LIKE ME.
THEY WON'T PAY ANY ATTENTION TO
THE GAS VERSUS ELECTRIC ISSUE
UNTIL THEY DO PAY ATTENTION TO
IT AND THEN THEY'LL BE MAD LIKE
ME THAT THE BUILDERS COULD NOT
LOOK EVEN A LITTLE BIT INTO THE
FUTURE AND SEE THE GAS FIELD IN
THIS DAY AND AGE IS RIDICULOUS
AND VASTLY DESTRUCTIVE.
IT'S WRONG.
WE ALL KNOW WHAT'S WRONG.
A COUPLE OF YEARS FROM NOW
PEOPLE WILL LOOK BACK AT THIS
SO-CALLED CONTROVERSY ABOUT
CONTINUING TO INSTALL GAS AND
WONDER WHY IT WAS EVEN
CONSIDERED.
IT'S TIME THAT WE STOP
INSTALLING GAS NOW NOT ONLY AT
THE VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR BUT
FOR ANY NEW CONSTRUCTION.
WE CAN'T STOP THIS ONE
DEVELOPMENT
AT A TIME.
WE NEED A COMPREHENSIVE PROCESS
THAT STEERS DEVELOPERS AWAY
FROM GAS AND THEREFORE
ELECTRIFICATION.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU, HIGH COMMISSIONERS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
MY NAME IS DAVID KIRK.
I'M FROM ONE THREE ONE FIVE
SOUTH MAPLE ROAD ON THE WEST
SIDE OF TOWN AND I'M
REPRESENTING WASH MY CLIMATE
REALITY THIS EVENING.
I UNDERSTAND THAT THIS IS YOUR
OPPORTUNITY TO CONSIDER PHASE
TWO OF THIS PROJECT WITH PHASE
ONE.
A LOT OF US DID COME HERE OR
WRITE LETTERS AND WE ASKED FOR
YOU TO COMPEL THE DEVELOPERS TO
USE PURELY ELECTRIC MEANS TO
EAT THE PROPERTY AND AS I
UNDERSTAND IT YOU WENT THROUGH
WITH THE APPROVAL ANYWAY AND
WENT TO THE CITY COUNCIL FOR
THEM TO PASS.
SO YOU MIGHT WONDER WHAT'S
DIFFERENT NOW, WHAT'S CHANGED
NOW?
WHAT'S HAPPENING?
WHY ARE WE BOTHERING TO COME
AGAIN IF IT HAPPENED BEFORE
PRESUMABLY YOU'LL DO THE SAME
THING THIS TIME.
WHAT'S HAPPENED THIS TIME IS
THE SUMMER OF TWENTY TWENTY
THREE.
I'M SURE YOU'VE ALL BEEN
READING ABOUT IT EVERY DAY,
HEARING ABOUT IT IN THE NEWS .
WE'VE BEEN BREAKING HEAT
RECORDS EVERYWHERE 31 STRAIGHT
DAYS OVER A HUNDRED AND TEN
DEGREES IN PHENIX NEARLY THE
ENTIRE SUMMER OVER A HUNDRED
DEGREES IN AUSTIN, TEXAS NOT
ONLY IN OUR SUMMER HERE IN THE
NORTHERN HEMISPHERE BUT IN THE
WINTER WHICH IS GOING ON RIGHT
NOW IN THE SOUTHERN HEMISPHERE.
THEY'RE BREAKING ALL SORTS
OF RECORDS.
IT'S NOT JUST A MATTER
OF BREAKING RECORDS, IT'S
DEMOLISHING RECORDS,
OBLITERATING RECORDS NOT BY
HUNDREDTHS OF A DEGREE BUT BY A
QUARTER OF A DEGREE.
THAT MAY NOT SOUND LIKE TOO
MUCH A DEGREE CELSIUS.
THAT IS A GIGANTIC DIFFERENTIAL
WHEN YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT GOING
ABOVE WHAT THE PREVIOUS RECORD
WAS AND IT'S NOT JUST A MATTER
OF NUMBERS, IT'S ALSO A MATTER
OF CONSEQUENCES.
WE HAD THE FIRE THE WILDFIRES
IN HAWAII THAT WAS AT ALL
BECAUSE OF CLIMATE CHANGE.
NO, THEY HAD INVASIVE GRASSES
THERE WHICH REALLY WERE NOT
PROPERLY ADAPTED TO THE AREA
BUT CLIMATE CHANGE IS ALWAYS A
THREAT MULTIPLIER.
IT DRIED THEY HAD A DROUGHT
THERE.
THEY HAD EXCESSIVE HEAT THERE.
EVERYTHING WAS DRIED OUT AND
WHEN THE HEAT WHEN THE FIRE
CAME IT JUST SPREAD LITERALLY
LIKE WILDFIRE.
JUST A COUPLE OF I GUESS IT WAS
ABOUT A WEEK OR TWO AGO NOT
PROBABLY NOT EVEN TWO WEEKS AGO
PROBABLY ONE WEEK AGO IN LIBYA
THEY HAD THAT HORRIBLE FLOODING
SITUATION.
NOW WE ALL KNOW THE DAMS BROKE
AND A LOT OF THAT WAS BECAUSE
THEY WEREN'T MAINTAINED
PROPERLY.
MUCH OF IT WAS BECAUSE IT WAS
AN INORDINATE MATTER OF RAIN
JUST TODAY THE WEATHER
ATTRIBUTION WORLD WEATHER
ATTRIBUTION SERVICE SAID THAT
THE RAINS WERE 40 PERCENT
GREATER HEAVIER THAN THEY WOULD
HAVE BEEN IN THE ABSENCE
OF CLIMATE CHANGE AND THAT THE
BREAK THE BREAKING OF THE DAMS
WAS FIFTY TIMES AS LIKELY AS IT
WOULD HAVE BEEN IN THE ABSENCE
OF CLIMATE CHANGE.
THE SAME THINGS ARE DIFFERENT
NOW HAD IT BEEN TEN YEARS HAD
IT BEEN TWO YEARS OK, OK.
OK PLEASE.
I'M JUST GOING TO ECHO WHAT MY
MY COLLEAGUE SAID EARLIER.
PLEASE DON'T LET THIS THROUGH
AND I WANT TO THANK THE
DEVELOPERS FOR MAKING THE
CHANGE THAT YOU DID WITH REGARD
TO PUTTING HEAT PUMPS IN THE IN
THE CONDO ASPECT OF IT.
BUT THIS IS A DIFFERENT AREA
NOW WE ARE NOT IN THE ERA
OF HALF MEASURES WE MUST STOP
THE USE OF FOSSIL FUEL
COMPLETELY AT THIS POINT.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT I
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
THANKS
CHARLIE KING OVER AGAIN.
TWENTY EIGHT HAVE A RECORD.
I WON'T TRY TO MATCH THE
ELOQUENCE OF THE PREVIOUS
SPEAKERS.
I JUST I JUST WANT TO RAISE A
FEW POINTS THE ONE HUNDRED
SIXTY FOUR FOR SALE HOMES
THEY'LL BE ALL ELECTRIC THE
SOLAR STREET LIGHTS AND THE
HOUSE OR I DON'T KNOW HOW
WIDELY KNOWN THIS IS BUT YOU
AND I ARE PAYING FOR THAT.
AND HAVE THE DEVELOPER BEEN
INCORPORATED IN THE BROWNFIELD
PLAN FOR THIS SITE?
ONE POINT THIRTY TWO MILLION
FOR THE HEAT PUMPS FOR FORTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR THE SOLAR
PANELS PLUS ONE POINT ONE SEVEN
ONE MILLION IN CARRYING COSTS
FOR THE ABOVE.
SO DEVELOPER IN MY MIND DOESN'T
GET POINTS FOR THIS AND I
PERSONALLY THINK THAT WE AS THE
PUBLIC SHOULD NOT BE PAYING FOR
SOMETHING THAT DEVELOPERS
SHOULD BE DOING ALREADY.
SO I'VE SPOKEN I COUNTED 14
SEPARATE TIMES ON THE VILLAGE
PROJECT DATING BACK TO DECEMBER
TWENTY TWENTY ONE FOR THE SAME
REASON THAT PREVIOUS SPEAKERS
JUST I UNDERSTAND EVERYONE'S
POSITION ON THIS DEVELOPER THAT
ASPECT OF THE PROJECT YOU KNOW
THEY SEE RISK IT'S A BIG
PROJECT.
THEY HAVE TO PAY OFF A
CONSTRUCTION LOAN.
THEY HAVE AN INTERNAL RATE
OF RETURN THEY HAVE TO ACHIEVE
I HAD WHAT THEY PERCEIVE AS AN
EXTRA RISK TO THIS YOU KNOW,
THIS COMMISSION I KNOW YOU
PROBABLY WANT TO RECTIFICATION
.
WE START OUT WITH THE ALTARUM
DISCUSSION.
I THANK YOU FOR THAT.
I'M REALLY GRATEFUL THAT THAT
IT LOOKS LIKE YOU'RE GOING TO
REQUIRE THAT THAT DEVELOPER I
REALIZED THAT ONCE THIS THING
IS APPROVED BECOMES AN ALL
RIGHT PROJECT AND YOU FEEL THAT
YOU CANNOT YOU CAN ASK FOR IT
HERE BUT YOU CAN'T REQUIRE IT
BECAUSE THERE'S NOTHING THAT
ADDRESSES THIS IN THE UDC.
ALL OF THIS IS TRUE.
EVERYONE OK?
BUT THE NET EFFECT IS MORE AND
MORE EMISSIONS GLOBALLY,
NATIONALLY, LOCALLY ARE OUR
LATEST INVENTORY.
SO THE LOCAL EMISSIONS ARE UP
TO SECOND YEAR IN A ROW.
WE MUST TAKE COLLECTIVE
RESPONSIBILITY FOR THIS PROBLEM
INCLUDING AVERAGE AMERICANS
LIKE ME WITH OUR HUGE
CARBON FOOTPRINTS.
SOMEONE HAS TO OWN THIS.
MAYBE THAT TIME AND PLACE IS
HERE TONIGHT I ASK ROBERTSON
BROTHERS TOO OFTEN FOR THE
THIRTEENTH TIME TO GO ALL
ELECTRIC.
YOU KNOW THIS IS A GOOD
DEVELOPER.
THIS IS A GOOD SITE PLAN.
LIKE I SAID, I UNDERSTAND THEIR
POINT OF VIEW BUT I ASK YOU TO
TAKE WHAT YOU PERCEIVE TO BE A
SLIGHT ADDITIONAL RISK FOR THIS
PROJECT.
IT IS HARD GO ELECTRIC BUT DO
IT FOR THE PLANET IF THEY
DON'T.
I ASK YOU AS A PLANNING
COMMISSION TO TAKE AN EXPANSIVE
VIEW OF YOU RESPONSIBILITIES.
SOMETHING HAS TO CHANGE.
THANK YOU, MR. GLOVER.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT I
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK SINCE NO
ONE ELSE IS OR ANYONE THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION REMOTELY.
WE HAVE THREE TOTAL CALLERS
WITH THEIR HANDS RAISED.
I'LL GO IN THE ORDER ON MY
SCREEN COLOR ENDING IN FIVE
THREE FOUR.
WHERE'S MY MOUTH?
YOU HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION PLEASE
MUTE YOURSELF.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES.
THANK YOU PAUL.
I WANT TO THANK THE LORD IN
ORDER.
LET ME START WITH WHAT I LIKE
ABOUT IT IN THE COMPREHENSIVE
FURTHER NIGHT VARIETY OF HOW I
REALLY LIKE THAT ASPECT OF THE
PROJECT, THE PORTRAYAL IN THE
FORUM AND THE DIFFERENT HOW
STRUCTURES APPARENTLY I THINK
THAT'S PART OF THE PLAN I
PROPOSE POINTING IN THE CHALCO
ENERGY COMMISSION ENVIRONMENTAL
COMMISSION EVEN THE VRBA
ANYBODY BIG OR POTENTIALLY
CARBON IMPACT STATEMENT ON
EVERY SINGLE DEVELOPMENT THAT
BEFORE YOU IF WE ARE GOING TO
BE NET ZERO BY 2030, WE NEED TO
KNOW THE NUMBERS TO PLUG INTO
THAT GREAT BIG SPREADSHEET WE
MUST HAVE BECAUSE EVERY TIME WE
PROVE SOMETHING THAT'S POWERED
BY GAS THEN THERE'S A DEFINITE
THAT WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
MAKE UP SOMEWHERE ELSE EVEN IF
YOU'RE INTO A PROCESS WITH THE
APPLIANCES THEN WE NEED TO KNOW
THAT NO THE PLUG INTO THAT BIG
SPREADSHEET BUT WE HAVE TO MAKE
UP WE KNOW WHAT WE HAVE TO MAKE
UP ELSEWHERE IN ORDER TO HIT
BACK AT ZERO AND WE SHOULD BE
DOING THAT FOR EVERY SINGLE
PROJECT.
I HOPE I CAN INFLUENCE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO PUT SOME PRESSURE
ON WHOEVER IT IS IT'S GOING TO
MAKE THAT DECISION REQUIRE
HALVING THE IMPACT OF EVERY
SINGLE WHETHER YOU VOTE NO OR
VOTE YES.
WE NEED TO KNOW THAT WE KNOW
HOW WE'RE DOING AND WITHIN THAT
NET ZERO RECENTLY WE PASSED WE
APPROVED A PLAN THAT LOWERED
THE BASE THREE FOUR TWO HUNDRED
APARTMENTS ARE GOING TO BE
HEATING GAS AND WATER.
HE GIVE MAYBE THEY MIGHT SWITCH
TO ELECTRIC DRYERS.
YOUR FORMER PLANNING COMMISSION
WAS ESSENTIALLY PLEADING WITH
THE DEVELOPER TO PLEASE DO
BETTER IN THAT CASE WE HAVE THE
LEVERAGE DEMANDS THAT THEY DO
BETTER MAKE PEOPLE DID NOT
UNDERSTAND TRADITIONAL ZONING
WELL ENOUGH TO KNOW AT THE TIME
THAT THE DEVELOPER HAD
CONDITIONS UPON THEM AND THEY
WERE ASKING TO HAVE THOSE TAKEN
OFF AND WE HAVE THE LEVERAGE TO
DEMAND BETTER IN TERMS
OF BUILDING ON THAT PROJECT.
WE'RE NOT ALWAYS GOING TO HAVE
THAT LEVERAGE BUT WHEN WE CAN
WE NEED TO USE WHATEVER WE HAVE
IF WE'RE GOING TO ACHIEVE THAT
AT ZERO.
AND I REALLY WANT TO THANK ALL
THE SPEAKERS THAT PRECEDED ME
TODAY.
THANK YOU ALL FOR SHOWING UP.
I'M SORRY I DID NOT THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
RIGHT.
NEXT SPEAKER LUIS VASQUEZ YOU
ARE NOW ALLOWED TO SPEAK.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
YES.
THANK YOU.
LUIS VASQUEZ NINE ZERO NINE
PARTNER DRIVE.
I'M PRACTICALLY A NEIGHBOR
OF THIS DEVELOPMENT THIS
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT I IT'S
HARD TO BALANCE THE NEED FOR
THE EXTREME NEED FOR HOUSING IN
ANN ARBOR WITH THE NEED FOR
SUSTAINABLE AND JUST AS A BIT
OF TIME TALKING ABOUT THE GREEN
PUDI JUST BEFORE LEFT NINE FEET
ON YOUR AGENDA YOU SPOKE ABOUT
ELECTRIFICATION AND THE
IMPORTANCE ELECTRIFICATION AND
I HAVE TO AGREE WITH ALL THE
PREVIOUS SPEAKERS THAT THIS IS
ALSO IMPORTANT FOR THIS
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
SO YOUNG AND ADDITIONALLY I
THINK THE BUILDINGS ALONG THAT
THAT ARE BEING PROPOSED TO BE
BUILT ALONG DEVOURING THEIR NOT
MERELY TALL ENOUGH AND ALSO
NEED TO CONSIDER
ELECTRIFICATION AND IN TERMS
OF REACHING OUR GOALS
OF SUSTAINABILITY AND GETTING
THE USE OF FOSSIL FUELS OUT.
BUT IT'S HARD TO BALANCE THE
NEED FOR HOUSING ALONG WITH THE
NEED FOR SUSTAINABILITY.
BUT I KNOW YOUR HEARTS ARE IN
THE RIGHT PLACE ON THESE ISSUES
AND AND I WOULD ENCOURAGE THE
DEVELOPER ALSO TO TAKE IT TO
HEART.
YOU KNOW, WE WANT THE BEST
DEVELOPMENTS.
WE WANT TO ADD NEIGHBORS TO OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS IN ANN ARBOR AND
LET'S MOVE FORWARD.
I'M REALLY EXCITED TO SEE
PLANNING COMMISSION MOVING
FORWARD ON A LOT OF THESE
PROPERTIES AND DEVELOPMENTS AND
THESE ISSUES.
BUT YES, IT'S IMPORTANT TO
CONSIDER ELECTRIFICATION.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME TONIGHT
.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE ONE MORE ATTENDEE WHO
HAS A RAISED HAND ALEX LOWE.
NOW YOU CAN ON MUTE AND ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
THREE MINUTES
.
HI FOLKS.
IT'S ALEX SLOGGETT.
THIRTY THREE FORTY SEVEN AVENUE
.
I WANT TO START WITH JUST A
QUICK CORRECTION TO TALK TO
THAT I GUESS HEATING ISN'T A
20TH CENTURY TECHNOLOGY.
WE'VE BEEN HYPING METHANE INTO
PEOPLE'S HOUSES AND BURNING
FOSSIL FLATULENCE SINCE THE
NINETEENTH CENTURY.
SO IT'S EVEN OLDER THAN THAT.
I AM PRO HEAT PUMP AND PRO
ELECTRIFICATION.
I CERTAINLY LIKE GAS STOVES ARE
A TERRIBLE IDEA AND QUITE
FRANKLY HEAT PUMPS ESPECIALLY
GROUNDSWELLS ONES ARE A NO
BRAINER.
THERE AREN'T MANY THINGS IN
ENGINEERING THAT WIN WIN
SITUATIONS THAT THESE ARE
BETTER FOR THE ENVIRONMENT EVEN
WITH COAL FIRED GENERATION AND
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT THEY'LL
HAVE TO EVENTUALLY DO ANYWAY
PUTTING IN GEOTHERMAL HEAT
PUMPS NOW.
WELL, IT'S ALREADY GOING TO BE
LARGE CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT
ALL OVER THE SITE.
IT'S GOING TO BE FAR CHEAPER
THAN RETROFITTING THE BUILDINGS
WE'VE HEARD TONIGHT FROM SOME
REAL ENVIRONMENTALISTS WITH
REAL CONCERNS AS WELL FROM
SOMEONE USING FOR
ENVIRONMENTALIST ARGUMENTS TO
OPPOSE THIS DEVELOPMENT.
>> I'D LIKE TO ADD ONE MORE
REAL ENVIRONMENTALIST
PERSPECTIVE.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE ELECTRIC
HEAT PUMPS ETC. I'M OKAY RIGHT
NOW WITH WITH HAVING GAS FOR
BACKUP HEATING AND FOR THE
MIDDLE OF WINTER AT MAYBE FOR
FOR WATER FOR WATER HEATERS.
IF WE COULD GET A LIMITED WATER
THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
BUT ANOTHER ENVIRONMENTAL THING
THAT'S THAT SEEMS TO HAVE BEEN
OVERLOOKED IS THE SHEER
MAGNITUDE OF SPACE THAT WE'RE
DEVOTING TO THE EARTH
SPECIFICALLY LAND USE THAT
WE'RE DEVOTING TO THE STORAGE
OF COST RATHER THAN HOUSING
PEOPLE.
I THINK IT'S A MUCH BETTER
VERSION OF THIS PROJECT WOULD
BE HARD FOR REASON AND WOULD
HAVE EITHER FAR LESS POCKET OR
HAVE THAT PARKING STRUCTURES.
I REALLY WOULD ENCOURAGE THE
DEVELOPERS TO CONSIDER THIS
ESPECIALLY GIVEN THE JUST
NORMAL AND ENORMOUS
ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE THAT THAT
CAUSED DO GLOBALLY EVERY YEAR.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE ANOTHER CALLER WITH
THEIR HAND RAISED IN ONE SECOND
CALLER WITH PHONE THINGS
JUMPING CALLER WITH ONE NO
ENDING ONE FOR PLEASE ON MUTE
AND YOU MAY SPEAK TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR THREE
MINUTES
CALLER ENDING IN NINE.
YES, WE CAN HEAR YOU NOW.
THANK YOU.
HI THIS IS RITA CALLING I LIVE
AT TWENTY ONE REASON OR ANOTHER
AND I'LL LET YOU KNOW THAT I AM
HERE OF THE COMMISSION IN ANN
ARBOR BUT I AM SPEAKING FOR
MYSELF TONIGHT AND I WANT TO
THANK ALL THE PEOPLE WHO CALLED
OUT TO OF NEEDING TO MOVE TO
ELECTRIFICATION AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE OVER THE NEED FOR THAT
URGENTLY BECAUSE EMERGENCY SO I
ONLY WANT TO CALL THE POINT
THAT THE REAL REASON RIGHT NOW
I THINK THAT THE DEVELOPER
PROBABLY WON'T BE THE LONG TERM
OWNER OF THIS PROPERTY AND SO
IS LOOKING AT THE WAY THAT THE
INITIAL IMPLEMENTATION BUT WE
NEED TO LOOK LONG TERM AND SO
MY COMMENT IS THAT WHAT REALLY
HAPPENING IS THAT WE SHOULD NOT
SET UP THE BUILDING NOW THAT
HAS TO BE RETROFITTED IN THE
FUTURE IN ORDER TO ACCOMMODATE
DENHA APPLICATIONS THAT WE KNOW
WE NEED NOW.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR THANK YOU.
NO OTHER CALLERS.
SO WE WILL MOVE ON TO THE
PROPOSED MOTION THE UNIVERSITY
PLANNING COMMISSION HEREBY
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE
VILLAGE OF ANN ARBOR I'M
LOOKING AT 17 1710 JUVONEN AND
WITHIN THE SOUTHEAST QUADRANT
THE PONTIAC TRAIL AND DIFFEREN
ROAD MOVE BY COUNCIL UNDER THIS
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER WHICH
WE ARE IN DISCUSSION WITH
ANYONE LIKE THE COUNCIL MEMBER
,I WILL TAKE THE PRIVILEGE
OF SPEAKING FIRST BECAUSE THIS
IS A PROJECT THAT IS IN MY
WARD.
UM, I APPRECIATE THE
ACKNOWLEDGMENT BY A NUMBER
OF THE SPEAKERS THAT WE ARE ALL
ON THE SAME SIDE.
NONE OF US DENIES THE
SERIOUSNESS OF ANTHROPOGENIC
CLIMATE CHANGE.
NONE OF US LIKES A SENSE
OF URGENCY ABOUT THE PROBLEM IN
THIS AS IN EVERY SITUATION WE
CONFRONT TRADE OFFS AND WE CAN
EMPHASIZE WHAT THIS PROJECT
DOES NOT DO BUT WE COULD ALSO
EMPHASIZE WHAT IT DOES DO.
THIS IS A FORWARD LOOKING
FUTURE LOOKING PROJECT THAT WE
PURPOSES A BLIGHTED SITE THAT
HAS A CAPPED LANDFILL THAT HAS
AND HAS BEEN SAID OR SORRY
SORRY HAS SAT VACANT FOR OVER
50 YEARS I THINK.
RIGHT.
THIS IS A DIVERSE HOUSING.
THESE ARE NOT HIGH BEDROOM
UNITS TARGETING STUDENTS.
STUDENTS ARE WELCOME TO LIVE
THERE AND THEY MAY WELL THIS
PROJECT ADDS SOME HOUSING AT AN
ACCESSIBLE PRICE POINT TO AN
AREA THAT HAS SEEN ON THE ONE
HAND HIGH END MARKET
CONSTRUCTION AND ON THE OTHER
CONSTRUCTION TARGETING STUDENTS
DESIGNED FOR STUDENTS AND NOT
VERY ADAPTABLE TO ANYTHING
OTHER THAN STUDENT USE.
IT IS THE 164 FOR SALE CONDOS
ARE ALL ELECTED.
THAT IS NOT HOW THIS PROJECT
CAME TO US.
IT REQUIRED CONSIDERABLE
NEGOTIATION, HARD WORK BY STAFF
AND A LOT OF I THINK GENUINE
GOODWILL BY THE DEVELOPER WHO
HAS SPENT AN ENORMOUS AMOUNT
OF TIME AND MONEY TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT HOW TO BUILD
RESIDENTIAL YOU KNOW, HOUSES
WHICH IS ALL HOUSES OR
RESIDENTIAL HOUSES, HOW TO PUT
A RESIDENTIAL PROJECT ON A SITE
WITH A LANDFILL
.
ALL OF THE BUILDINGS AND HOMES
WITH THIS WITHIN THIS PROJECT
NOT JUST THE CONDOS BUT ALL
OF THEM WILL INCLUDE ELECTRIC
COOKING APPLIANCES AND ELECTRIC
WASHERS AND DRYERS.
THE AND I WISH THAT THERE WERE
SIMPLE CHOICES BUT THERE ARE NO
SIMPLE CHOICES.
THE CITY DOES NOT HAVE THE
LEGAL ABILITY OR REALLY ANY
OTHER TOOLS TO COMPEL
DEVELOPERS TO HEAT AND COOL ALL
NEW BUILDINGS WITH ELECTRIC
POWER.
AND UNTIL WE ARE ABLE TO MAKE
THE SAME IMPOSE THE SAME
REQUIREMENTS ON EVERYONE WHO
COMES WITH COMES TO US WITH
THIS KIND OF PROJECT.
THIS IS NOT A PUDI THIS IS NOT
A THIS IS NOT THIS IS NOT THE
SAME.
YES, WE ARE REZONING A NEXT
PROPERTY BUT IT'S NOT THE SAME
AS WHEN WE FACE A 3D.
I DON'T FEEL THAT WE CAN
RANDOMLY HOLD SOME PEOPLE TO
HIGHER STANDARDS THAN WE HOLD
OTHERS.
WE NEED TO TREAT EVERYONE WHO
WANTS TO BUILD HERE FAIRLY.
NO ONE IS SEEING THIS ONLY IN
TERMS OF DOLLARS I'M SEEING IT
IN TERMS OF SIX HUNDRED AND
FOUR MORE PEOPLE WHO WILL COME
TO THE NORTH END OF PONTIAC
TRAIL RATHER THAN DRIVING IN ON
N14 WHICH IS DOING A WHOLE LOT
OF DAMAGE TO OUR COMMUNITY.
AND SO I UNDERSTAND THE THINGS
THAT THIS DEVELOPMENT DOESN'T
DO.
I VALUE THE THINGS THAT IT DOES
.
THIS IS A SMALL PIECE OF A
PROJECT THAT HAS BEEN VERY THAT
IS REQUIRED A WHOLE LOT TO
BRING TO FRUITION.
I THINK THAT WE WOULD HAVE
NEGOTIATED IN BAD FAITH IF WE
DID NOT ALLOW THESE THIS LAST
BIT OF THIS PROJECT TO GO
THROUGH AND WELCOME THE
GREENSPACE THAT THESE RESIDENTS
WILL HAVE.
IT'S MARVELOUS TO PROVIDE SUCH
AMENITIES.
SO THANKS TO COMMISSIONER AND I
KNOW THAT YEAH, WE HARD TIME
AND WE A LOT OF WORK TO DO
RELATIVE TO INCENTIVIZE I AGREE
THAT THERE ARE TOOLS THAT WE
CAN PROBABLY INCORPORATE THAT
WE HAVEN'T YET TO HELP
INCENTIVIZE NOT REQUIRE.
THAT'S WHAT WE CAN DO AT THIS
TABLE AND I'M LOOKING FORWARD A
LOT MORE OF THOSE CONVERSATIONS
AND WE ARE IN THE PROCESS
OFFICES SHOULD BE NEAR THE TOP
OF OUR LIST AT THE SAME TIME
THERE'S JUST THIS UNIQUE POINT
OF THIS PROJECT THAT WITH THE
ADDITION OF THIS WE GET MORE
OPEN SPACE SO WE REMOVE THE
REQUIREMENT AND WE GET MORE
DENSITY SIMULTANEOUSLY.
SO IT JUST SEEMS A LITTLE
NUANCE TO CELEBRATE WITHIN OUR
ZONING THAT'S GOING RIGHT OPEN
SPACE AND DENSITY
SIMULTANEOUSLY AND A LOT OF THE
PIECES THAT YOU KNOW, WE GO
BACK TO TO THE STATE OFFICES IF
NOT HERE, THOSE HOMES ARE GOING
TO GO SOMEWHERE.
THE HOUSING CRISIS DOESN'T STOP
AT OUR CITY BORDERS.
IT GOES ELSEWHERE AND THE
MARKET WILL FOLLOW IT AND WE
HAVE A GREENBELT AND SO WE'RE
NOT BUT THOSE HOMES AREN'T
GOING NEARBY AND TOWNSHIP
THEY'RE LEAPFROGGING OVER THAT
GREENBELT AND COMMUTING EVEN
FURTHER AWAY.
SO OUR OUR IDEAS OF THE
GREENBELT FROM 30 YEARS AGO ARE
ACTUALLY HAVING REPERCUSSIONS
AND INCREASING OUR VEHICLE.
MILES TRAVELED AND THE
TOWNSHIPS AND THE
MUNICIPALITIES AND THEIR
PERIMETER ARE NOT PUTTING THE
PRESSURE ON ELECTRIFICATION
WHERE WE ARE NOT ONLY PUTTING
THE PRESSURE ON AND SEEING
DEVELOPERS KIND OF MEET US
SOMEWHERE, WE ARE CONTINUING TO
TRY TO WORK ON THOSE INCENTIVES
AS WELL.
I'LL ADD I APPRECIATE THE
UTILITY COST MISTER'S UTILITY
SCHEDULE FOR OUR REGION
ACTUALLY MATCHES THIS VERY
SIMILARLY.
SO JUST TO KIND OF ADD
ANECDOTAL DATA HEATING ELEVEN
DOLLARS MORE FOR ELECTRIC
VERSUS NATURAL GAS COOKING
SEVEN DOLLARS WATER FIFTY
HEATING WATER FIFTEEN DOLLARS
SERVICE FOR GAS IS FOURTEEN FOR
ELECTRIC IS TEN SO THAT GIVES
US A DELTA OF TWENTY NINE
DOLLARS ADDITIONAL MONTH FOR
MISTER AND HOW THEY FACTOR IN
YOUR COST OF LIVING AT YOUR
THIRTY PERCENT FOR MY
CALCULATIONS SO SIMILARLY WE
SEE BETWEEN TWENTY ONE AND
THIRTY ONE DOLLARS PER MONTH
AND MISTER'S HERE AT THIRTY
THREE TWENTY NINE TO THIRTY
THREE DOLLARS A MONTH SO HAS
DONE THE WORK TO AND HAS ALSO
DONE THE WORK TO CALIBRATE AND
SAY AFFORDABLE ELECTRIC ARE
ALSO COMPATIBLE.
RIGHT AND THEY'RE FACTORING
THAT IN SO IT'S JUST GOOD TO
SEE AND IT'S ALSO RECOGNIZING
THAT ELECTRICITY IS MORE BUT
ALSO SUPPORTED BY OUR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING FACTORS AT
THE SAME TIME.
SO I DON'T SEE IT EVER AS AN
EXCUSE THAT A LITTLE BIT MORE A
MONTH MAKES IT INACCESSIBLE OR
AFFORDABLE.
IT JUST KIND OF VALIDATES WE'RE
ALL WORKING WITH UTILITY COSTS
AS THE ISSUE MAYBE MY FINAL
POINT AND I KNOW WE HAVE THIS
DISCUSSION THE FIRST TIME
AROUND AT DTG AND THE SERVICE
ON THE NORTH SIDE IS DIFFICULT
AND I UNDERSTAND THAT THERE ARE
CONVERSATIONS AROUND THIS
PROJECT WHAT SERVICE COULD COME
AND AGAIN WE HAVE A LOT
OF CONVERSATIONS TO HAVE AS A
COMMUNITY WITH OUR UTILITY AND
SERVICE PROVIDERS TO PUT THAT
PRESSURE ON TO BRING MORE
SERVICE TO THESE AREAS BECAUSE
WE WANT TO SEE MORE DENSITY AND
WE WANT TO SEE A SERVICE
ELECTRICITY BUT I DON'T WANT TO
SEE IT SERVICED BY GAS OUTSIDE
OF OUR OUR COMMUNITY AND IT
SERVICED BY GAS AND THEN
CONNECTED BY GAS CARS
SIMULTANEOUSLY.
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO SUPPORTING
THIS WITH THE TOOLS THAT WE
HAVE AS IT'S PRESENTED TODAY.
BUT I APPRECIATE ALL THE
VARIABLES AND THE CONDITIONS
PRESENTED AND WE UNDERSTAND AND
WE'RE REALLY WORKING TOWARDS IF
I CAN KIND OF OFFER THAT UP.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER SALVAJE.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT, I CAN'T
REALLY FOLLOW EITHER OF THOSE
SO I WILL SAY I CONCUR AND I
HAVE A QUESTION FOR THE
PETITIONER.
YOU MENTIONED AN EASING ON THE
NEW WHERE THE NEW HOUSING IS
WITH THE NEIGHBOR AND I
REMEMBER WHEN YOU WERE HERE
BEFORE WE WE TALKED I THINK A
LOT ABOUT THE LACK
OF CONNECTIVITY INTO THAT
NEIGHBORHOOD AT THAT TIME.
SO WERE YOU ABLE TO MAKE
INROADS WITH THAT COMMUNITY
THAT'S TO THE NORTH WEST TO A
LOT TO TO HAVE MORE PENETRATION
AND CONNECTIVITY BETWEEN THE
SITES I WAS REFERRING TO TO
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES THAT ARE ON
DEVAR.
SO THERE IS A COMMON ACCESS
RIGHT NOW OFF OF DUVAN FOR THAT
WE'RE SHIFTING THAT OVER
ALLOWING THEM TO ACCESS ON OUR
NEW ROAD.
SO THAT'S WHAT I WAS REFERRING
TO.
I DON'T BELIEVE THERE'S ANY
OPPORTUNITY NECESSARILY TO
CONNECT TO DIVINE ON THE
PURCHASE BECAUSE THERE ARE A
LOT OF HOMES BASICALLY BACKING
UP ALL THE WAY TO THE ACTUALLY
ADJACENT TO THE LANDFILL.
SO NO, THAT'S WHAT I WAS
REFERRING TO.
I SAID THOSE HOMES ARE THAT IS
NOT PART OF CORRECT.
THAT'S TO OUR WEST THE
ENTRANCE.
YES.
.
SO THAT STILL DOESN'T CONNECT
THEN ONE MORE QUESTION THAT
WHAT IS THE DISTANCE?
SO I WAS JUST TRYING TO LIKE
I'M LOOKING AT THE HOUSE, I'M
LOOKING AT THE NEW PARK AND I'M
LOOKING AT THE NEW TOWNHOMES
THAT ARE BEING PROPOSED.
I'D LIKE TO WALK FROM THAT
BUILDING WITH STARTED ON
DAVOREN DOWN TO THE CLUB HOUSE
.
HOW LONG DO YOU THINK THAT
WOULD TAKE AND IS THAT A PATH
YOU'RE ENVISIONING THAT PEOPLE
I'M CONCERNED ABOUT PEOPLE LIKE
TO USE THE POOL.
I'M JUST GOING TO DRIVE THERE,
YOU KNOW, SOME I'M JUST 200 SO
THAT'S WHAT ARE YOU THINKING
ABOUT LIKE MAKING THAT STREET
FEEL LIKE SOMETHING THAT PEOPLE
WANT TO WALK DOWN?
I CAN'T I CAN'T GET A SENSE
OF DISTANCE.
IT'S ABOUT A QUARTER MILE I'D
SAY SO.
I MEAN IT'S CERTAINLY I MEAN WE
OBVIOUSLY ENCOURAGE WALKING.
WE DID PUT PARKING DOWN BY THE
CLUBHOUSE BUT WE LIMITED IT.
I KNOW THAT WAS A PART OF A
CONVERSATION WE HAD EARLIER SO
WE DID THAT SPECIFICALLY FOR
THAT.
SO YEAH, THEY ENCOURAGED ME
OBVIOUSLY AS TO TO WALK TO IT.
I CAN CERTAINLY UNDERSTAND YOUR
CONCERN BUT YOU KNOW OUR OUR
INTENT WAS TO CREATE ALL THESE
PATHS SO PEOPLE WILL USE THEM.
I MEAN I'M SURE YOU'RE THINKING
OF THOSE LIKE WHATEVER YOU CAN
DO IN TERMS OF LIKE WAYFINDING
SIGNAGE, IT JUST FEELS LIKE
YOU'RE WAY UP HERE AND DUBAH
AND IT'S A LITTLE DISCONNECTED,
YOU KNOW, LIKE I AM LOOKING AS
I DO.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT IT'S GOING TO
LOOK LIKE WHEN IT'S DONE BUT
JUST ANYTHING YOU CAN DO TO
ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO BE LIKE
TAKING THE TRAILS OR TAKING THE
SIDEWALKS TO APPRECIATE THAT
IT'S HARD TO SEE YOU KNOW,
OBVIOUSLY WILL HAVE A
CONNECTION ACTUALLY IT'S
THERE'S SO MANY TREES CAN
REALLY SEE THE EAST SIDE
OF THAT NORTH SOUTH STREET
WHERE THE LANDFILL IS OUR
SIDEWALK THERE.
SO THAT'S KIND OF THE
ENCOURAGEMENT THERE.
YOU MENTIONED WAYFINDING NEVER
MENTIONED IT BUT WE HAVE KIND
OF A KIND OF A ROBUST WAY FOR
WAYFINDING PLAN THAT I THINK
HOPEFULLY EVERYBODY WILL
APPRECIATE JUST TO KIND
OF THEME THIS ALSO THOSE
EXACTLY WHAT YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT IT'LL HAVE DIRECTIONS TO
SOME OF THESE PATHWAYS AND ONE
OF THE CALLERS MENTIONED
PARKING.
IT DOES SEEM LIKE A LOT
OF PARKING.
I ALSO KNOW THIS AREA OF TOWN
AND LIKE IT'S HARD TO GET
AROUND WITHOUT A CAR BUT IT
DOES SEEM LIKE AN AWFUL LOT
OF PARKING.
BUT YOU KNOW, WE DON'T MINIMUMS
WE DON'T KNOW MAXIMUM SO YEAH.
AND I KNOW IF YOU WANTED TO
DISCUSS IT OR NOT WE TALKED
ABOUT IT.
I KNOW WE LIMIT IT QUITE THAT
THERE WAS A THINK COMMISSION
WHICH HAD KIND OF MADE THOSE
COMMENTS EARLIER AND WE DID
REDUCE QUITE A BIT OF PARKING
ON THE SOUTHERN SIDE.
THE NORTHERN SIDE WERE ABOUT
ONE AND A HALF SPACES PER UNIT
ARE CONCERNED WITH GOING ANY
LOWER THAN THAT IS THERE'S
REALLY NOT ANOTHER AREA
OF PARK
SO WE DIDN'T WANT TO FLOOD THE
NEIGHBORHOODS TO THE WEST OR
THE CHURCH TO THE EAST.
SO THAT'S THERE'S JUST WASN'T
AN OPPORTUNITY TO HAVE ANY
OVERFLOW PARKING IN OUR MINE
THERE.
WELL, I THANK YOU FOR NOT
PUTTING IT UP AGAINST THE ROAD.
YEAH, RIGHT.
WELL YES.
I MEAN WE CONSCIOUSLY WANTED TO
PUT THE BUILDINGS UP AGAINST
THE ROAD.
WE THINK THAT THAT'S GOOD
PLANNING PRACTICE FOR SURE.
THANKS.
AND THE OTHER COMMISSIONERS
CHRISTIAN NEUTZE, THANKS FOR
COMING BACK AND REMEMBERING
THAT I WAS I WAS I WAS TOLD THE
PARKING LOT REMAIN OPPOSED TO
ALL THE PARKING ESPECIALLY WHEN
YOU FIRST PRESENTED IT AND IT
WAS QUITE SIGNIFICANT.
I WONDER AS WE'VE HEARD FROM
THE PUBLIC TONIGHT AROUND THE
CONCERNS WITH THE GAS AND
HOOKUPS THAT I KNOW MR. GARBER
HAS ACTUALLY SPENT A LOT
OF TIME TALKING WITH YOU AND
SPEAKING BEFORE US ABOUT YOUR
PROJECT IN PARTICULAR TO TRY TO
CONVINCE YOU BECAUSE YOU KNOW,
WE LACK THE AUTHORITY TO DENY
THIS REQUEST BECAUSE YOU'RE
HOOKING UP TO GAS.
BUT I WONDER SORT OF WHERE YOU
ARE TODAY BECAUSE THIS HAS BEEN
A MULTI MONTH PROJECT IN ARE
YOU WILLING TO RECONSIDER
HOOKING UP GAS AND GOING ALL
ELECTRIC FOR THIS NEW ADDITION
?
SO IT'S THE SAME I GUESS THE
SAME ARGUMENTS WE HAD BEFORE
AND I DO UNDERSTAND THINGS HAVE
CHANGED A BIT HERE AND I'VE
HEARD THOSE THOSE COMMENTS WE
HAVE THAT QUITE A BIT WITH MR.
GARBER.
MR. FINE.
YOU KNOW AND AND I WAS ASKED AS
WELL.
SO I MEAN WE'VE HAD THOSE
CONVERSATIONS IN FACT WHERE
WE'RE WILLING TO HAVE MORE
CONVERSATIONS.
THEY'VE ACTUALLY INVITED US TO
A FORUM WHICH WE WE'RE EXCITED
TO BE PART OF .
WE'RE HAPPY TO BE PART OF IT.
SO YES, I THINK WE'RE OPEN TO
THOSE CONVERSATIONS AS OF RIGHT
NOW.
NO, WE'RE NOT WILLING TO COMMIT
ANY MORE THAN WHAT WE'VE
COMMIT.
WE DID THOUGH COME IN I THINK
MR. JOSH HAD MENTIONED
COUNCILMAN JOSH MENTIONED THE
APPLIANCES, THE WASHER DRYER
THOSE ARE ALL ELECTRIC AND THEN
WE WILL IT'S NOT A MATTER
OF RETROFITTING.
WE WILL PLAN ON THE FRONT END
FOR THE REPLACEMENT OF THOSE
WHEN THEY GO IN IT IS PROBABLY
IT IS EIGHT TO 15 YEARS I THINK
IS REALLY WHAT WHAT THE THOUGHT
PROCESS IS.
THAT'S OUR GAME PLAN NOW WE'RE
OPEN THOUGH AS I MENTIONED WE
HAVE ACCEPTED THEIR OFFER TO
MEET WITH THE FORUM.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO JUST TURN
OUR BACK AND GO FROM THERE.
SO I KNOW THAT'S EASY FOR ME TO
SAY AND JUST JUST BELIEVE ME
BUT WE'RE WILLING TO KEEP THE
DOOR OPEN AND THEY'LL ATTEST TO
THAT.
I'M SURE THEY WILL.
AND CAN YOU REMIND US THE
LENGTH OF TIME YOU'VE APPLIED
FOR THE BROWNFIELD ABATEMENT?
IS IT A THIRTY YEAR?
IT'S A FIFTEEN FIFTEEN YEAR,
YES.
OK, THANK THE OTHER
COMMISSIONERS
.
THANK YOU FOR THE PRESENTATION
AND TO ALL THE COMMENTERS
OBVIOUSLY WE HAVE TALKED ABOUT
THIS AT LENGTH AND LEGISLATIVE
TENSIONS WITH RESPECT TO WHAT
ZONING ACT ENABLES US TO DO IS
THE CHALLENGE I COMMISSIONER
WHICH ASKED THE QUESTION THAT I
WAS GOING TO ASK WHICH IS
SIMPLY YOU TRIED I MEAN THERE'S
A TRADE OFF OF NATURAL GAS
PIPING IS ALSO VERY EXPENSIVE.
RIGHT.
AND SO THERE'S A INITIAL BUILD
COST RELATIVE TO INFRASTRUCTURE
ONCE IT'S INSTALLED.
TOUGH TO TAKE AWAY BUT THAT
BEING SAID, I THINK I AGREE
WITH I CONCUR WITH THE COMMENTS
MADE EARLIER.
I THINK I'M NOT SEEING ANY
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS.
I BELIEVE THIS GOES TO A ROLL
CALL VOTE THIS LEO, THANK YOU.
UH, COMMISSIONER, YOUR YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS YES.
COMMISSIONER.
YES, COMMISSIONER SILVER YES,
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
COMMISSIONER.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
COMMISSIONER CLARK.
YES.
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE YES.
YES.
THAT'S NINE VOTES THE MOTION IS
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE YES.
THANK YOU.
THAT'S NINE VOTES THE MOTION IS
WE ARE MOVING ON TO THE NEXT
THANK YOU.
ORDER OF BUSINESS IS TEN
WE ARE MOVING ON TO THE NEXT
TWENTY.
ORDER OF BUSINESS IS TEN
LET ME JUST CHECK IN WITH
TWENTY.
COMMISSIONERS.
LET ME JUST CHECK IN WITH
OK, WE WILL TAKE FIVE AND WE
COMMISSIONERS.
WILL RECONVENE AT TEN TWENTY
OK, WE WILL TAKE FIVE AND WE
FOUR.
WILL RECONVENE AT TEN TWENTY
>> THANK YOU
.
ON THE PLANNING COMMISSION BACK
IN THE SESSION GOT A SECTION
NINETY OF THE AGENDA REGULAR
BUSINESS I'M GOING TO INTRODUCE
A PETITION THIRTY SEVEN POINT
ONE AND THIRTY SEVEN THIRTEEN
RIVERSIDE DRIVE ANNEXATION AND
ZONING FOR CITY COUNCIL
APPROVAL REQUEST.
THE ANNEXES TO PARCELS TOTALING
ZERO POINT SEVEN FOUR ACRES IN
ANN ARBOR TOWNSHIP TO THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR AND ZOHN IT TO OUR
ONE SINGLE FAMILY DWELLING.
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION IS
APPROVAL WILL BEGIN WITH STAFF
PRESENTATION.
MR. KOWALSKI, THANK YOU.
I WAS PRETTY MUCH MY
PRESENTATION.
I I MEAN THERE'S NOT MUCH TO
THIS AS WE JUST READ IT.
I MEAN IT'S TO FAMILY SINGLE
FAMILY PARCELS BASICALLY A
BUILDING, ONE OF THEM A HOUSE.
THE OTHER ONE IS VACANT AGAIN
THEY HAD ORIGINALLY REQUESTED
WHEN ANY ZONING BACK HAD COME
UP WITH AN R ONE B ZONING THE
DIFFERENCE BEING TEN THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET PER LOT TWENTY
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET MINIMUM R1
A AND TEN THOUSAND SQUARE FEET
MINIMUM FOR OUR ONE B AND THAT
PRETTY MUCH SUMMARIZES THE
PRESENTATION AND OF COURSE
THAT'S RECOMMENDING APPROVAL.
THANK THANK YOU AND APOLOGIES
FOR TAKING YOUR THUNDER BUT I
THINK THAT ONE THE ACTIVITIES
THE REST OF THEM TO THE R B WAS
VERY HELPFUL.
I'M GOING TO NOW MOVE TO PUBLIC
HEARING THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR PERSONS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ABOUT THE
PROPOSED RIVERSIDE DRIVE
ANNEXATIONS.
WELL, FIRST CALL AN INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK DURING
THIS PUBLIC HEARING REMOTELY.
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE OR STAR
SIX IF LISTENING BY PHONE OR
USE A RIGHT HAND FEATURE
OF VIEWING THROUGH THE WEB LINK
FOR PHONE ACCESS, PLEASE CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
EIGHTY NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY
STAFF SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE
RAISED THEIR HAND USING THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF YOUR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME IF AVAILABLE
FOR THOSE ACCESSING THROUGH THE
WEB LINK YOU'LL HEAR AN
AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE
HOSTS ARE GOING TO SPEAK AND
WHEN SPEAKING PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA MUTE ANY BACKGROUND
SOUND SO THAT WE CAN HEAR YOU
CLEARLY FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS THE BEGINNING OF YOUR
COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT I WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK SEEING NO ONE IS
ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION REMOTELY
THERE IS ONE PERSON WITH THEIR
HAND RAISED ALEX YOU ARE NOW
ABLE TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
FOR THREE MINUTES I HAD TO MEET
AGAIN ALEX 33 FORTY THIRD
AVENUE IF ANYONE ON THE
COMMISSION OTHER THAN
POTENTIALLY A COMMISSION
WEATHERBY DOESN'T KNOW WHAT
WHAT I'VE JUST SAID THAT AT
THAT POINT YOU DON'T HAVE TO
ASK YOURSELF BUT MAYBE MAYBE
PAY MORE ATTENTION.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE THE
SAME DRUMBEAT THAT I HAVE FOR
EVERY ONE OF THESE.
IT'S GREAT THAT WE'RE DOING THE
SANITIZATION.
IT SHOULD BE ALL TWENTY OR
MAYBE EVEN TO A THERE'S NOTHING
THAT IS ALLOWED IN OUR WHAT
WOULD BE THAT THAT IS
DISALLOWED IN EITHER OF THOSE
DISTRICTS AND THAT ALLOWS FOR
FREEDOM FOR THE FOR THE
PROPERTY OWNER AT AS A FURTHER
DEVELOPMENT HAPPENS ESPECIALLY
HANG THEM ONE OF THE LIGHTS IS
ENTIRELY THEY SO SERVE THE
CURRENT OWNER WERE JUST WERE TO
SELL THAT AND I'LL BE THERE AT
THE WHAT COULD BE DONE WITH IT
WOULD BE FAR MORE RESTRICTED
THAN OTHER EITHER UNDER ONE OR
TWO A SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR. LO AND YOUR OTHER
CALLERS THERE ARE NO OTHER
CALLERS WITH THEIR HANDS RAISED
.
THANK YOU.
WITH THAT I WILL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT AND I WILL READ THE
PROPOSED MOTION.
THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
RECOMMENDS THE MAYOR AND THE
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE
ANNEXATION AND ARE ONE B SINGLE
FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT ZONING
OF THIRTY SEVEN POINT ONE AND
THIRTY SEVEN THIRTEEN RIVERSIDE
DRIVE MOVE BY MR. MILLS COUNCIL
MEMBER.
THIS DISCUSSION
DON'T ALL SPEAK
AT ONCE OF COMMITTEE COUNCIL
MEMBER GUESS I WILL MERELY ASK
THE QUESTION SEEING AS I HAVE
HEARD SOME FEEDBACK FROM
RESIDENTS IN THE AREA WHERE WE
PRESENT TO OUR ONE D IS THERE
ANY REASON WHY WE SHOULDN'T DO
THE SAME HERE SINCE WE DID IT
ELSEWHERE?
I THINK FROM THE REPORT THE
WORDING OF THE REPORT I THINK I
KNOW WHAT YOU WILL SAY AND I'M
NOT SAYING I'M NOT SAYING I
WANT TO CHANGE THIS BECAUSE YOU
KNOW WE DID IT TO WARD ONE.
LET'S DO IT TOWARD TWO TO I
WOULD ONLY MENTION THAT WITHIN
THE HOUR ONE CATEGORY A STAFF
FEELS IT IS PLANNING
COMMISSION'S DISCRETION
PREROGATIVE.
WE WOULD CAUTION AGAINST AN
AMENDMENT TO MULTIFAMILY
DISTRICT ON THE FLOOR BECAUSE
OF THE THE PUBLIC WATER AND
SANITARY SEWER IMPACTS HAVE NOT
BEEN STUDIED COMMISSIONER WHICH
BUT WE WE COULD GO TO OUR ONE D
BECAUSE ALL THAT IS IS THAT
JUST CHANGES THE MINIMUM LOT
SIZE.
IT DOESN'T RESTRICT THEM FROM
JUST PUTTING TWO SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES ON THE LOTS AS THEY ARE
CURRENTLY SIZED.
IT WOULD JUST INCREASE THE
DENSITY LATER IF THEY CHOOSE TO
SELL THEY COULD SUBDIVIDE INTO
FOUR AND I JUST WHAT I DON'T
UNDERSTAND SITS AT THE FRONT
HERE ON RIVER DRIVE.
ARE THERE ANY RESTRICTIONS THAT
I'M NOT AWARE OF IN TERMS
OF THE ORIENTATION OF THAT
SUBDIVISION THAT WOULD PREVENT
THEM FROM BEING ABLE TO FULLY
REALIZE BEFORE FROM FROM BEING
ABLE TO GO IF IT'S A TEN
THOUSAND YOU WERE CONSIDERING
AH ONE A SO IT'S A TWENTY
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT LOT SO
GOING FROM ONE DAY TO D WOULD
ALLOW FOR FOR AND SO ARE THERE
RESTRICTIONS IN THE CODE THAT
WOULD PREVENT THAT SUBDIVISION
AND NOT BE ALLOWED IN THAT
SPACE.
NO THERE'S NOTHING IN THAT
CODE THAT WOULD PRECLUDE I MEAN
THERE MAY BE NATURAL GAS TRYING
TO PULL UP A MAP REALLY SURELY
THERE COULD BE OTHER ELEMENTS
BUT THERE'S NOTHING NECESSARILY
IN THE CODE THAT WOULD PRECLUDE
THEM FROM GETTING ACCESS TO
THAT.
THEY HAVE FRONTAGE ON THE
PUBLIC ROAD.
SO I WOULD BE HAPPY TO AMEND
FROM ONE B TO ONE D SINCE IT
HAS NO SIGNIFICANT IMPACT ON
HOW THEY'RE PLANNING TO USE IT
AND I DON'T THINK WE HAVE
NOTICED NO COMMISSIONER OR
COUNCIL, NO DECISION EITHER
WAY.
I'M PROUD OF BOTH THE I NOTICED
IN THE REPORT.
IF SO IT'S A IT'S A IT'S A
POINT SEVENTY FOUR ACRE SITE SO
SO YEAH.
SO IF IT WERE R WHEN A THERE
WOULD BE THEY SAY YEAH ONE
HOUSE ONLY THAT WOULD BE AN
EXTREMELY INEFFICIENT USE
OF THE SPACE WHICH IS THIRTY
TWO THOUSAND SQUARE FEET IF IT
WERE RMV IT GOES UP TO THREE
AND IF THERE WERE R AND D THE
MAX WOULD BE SIX AND THEN AND I
DON'T KNOW IF THEY LOOKED AT
NATURAL FEATURES WHEN THEY
CALCULATED THAT JUST THEY WERE
JUST DOING THE MATH I COULD SAY
YEAH THOSE ARE JUST BASED ON
NUMBERS.
SO AGAIN WHEN YOU WANT YOU PUT
LAYOUTS AND SETBACKS IN THEIR I
DON'T REALLY SEE THAT ACTUALLY
PENCILING OUT EXACTLY LIKE SIX
FIVE AND I THINK WE SHOULD I
MEAN I'M REHEARSING ALL
OF THESE ARGUMENTS WITH PEOPLE
WHOM I NEED TO TALK TO ABOUT
THIS NOT BEING SUCH A DRAMATIC
THING TO DO BECAUSE YOU YOU
KNOW SO IN THIS CASE, UNLIKE
THE OTHER CASE THAT WE HAD, THE
OWNER INTENDS TO SELL THE
PARCELS FOR DEVELOPMENT
OPPORTUNITIES.
SO WE KNOW HERE THAT THAT IS
THE PLAN.
SO YOU THE MORE YOU SUBDIVIDE
THE LESS YOU CHARGE FOR THE
HOUSE.
SO AT SOME POINT YOUR OWN
FINANCIAL CALCULATION, YOU
KNOW, MIGHT SAY TO YOU I THINK
THREE'S FINE EVEN
THE FOR SIX.
SO YOU KNOW, I DON'T KNOW WHY
WE DON'T ON THE LOGIC THAT WE
HAD FOR THE LAST ONE ZONING
CHANGES NOTHING.
WE ADD MORE FLEXIBILITY IT I I
I TAKE THE REPORT SERIOUSLY.
IT SAYS AH WHEN B IS
RECOMMENDED FOR CONSISTENCY
WITH SURROUNDING LAND USES AND
THE OPPORTUNITY TO EVALUATE
FUTURE ZONING OF THE AREA
COMPREHENSIVELY DON'T YOU KNOW
WE AREN'T WE AREN'T LEAPING
FROM RESIDENTIAL TO MULTIFAMILY
RESIDENTIAL ALSO OR SINGLE
FAMILY AND MULTI-FAMILY SO I
WOULD FEEL GOOD ABOUT IT BUT
I'M ALSO I DON'T REALLY FEEL
STRONGLY ABOUT IT AND I ALSO AM
TIRED AS EVERYONE ELSE SO SO
WHATEVER NO QUESTION WHICH YEAH
I MEAN WE DIDN'T HAVE A STRONG
ARGUMENT THE LAST TIME EITHER
AND ONLY TO UNDERSTAND IT
WASN'T AT THE TABLE, IT WASN'T
A BIG BACK AND FORTH BECAUSE I
I THINK THE THING THAT I
LEARNED FROM COMMISSIONER
SILVER WAS THE WHEN WHEN MR.
LEONARD RESPONDED AROUND
DENSITY BECAUSE I WENT WENT
LOOKING AT THOSE ELEVEN PARCELS
THAT WERE COMING IN ON MIKSAD
SURE.
YEAH.
NEWPORT I WAS LET'S GO TO OUR
FORESE THAT'S WHERE I STARTED
AND I AND I WAS JUST NOT BEING
AMBITIOUS ENOUGH YOU KNOW I I
SHOULD HAVE GONE ALL THE WAY TO
WHATEVER OUR HIGHEST
RESIDENTIAL DENSITY IS WHICH
I'VE TALKED TO WITH MR. LEO
ABOUT LIKE LET'S JUST GO ALL
THE WAY TO OUR SIX.
BUT IN ANY EVENT I THINK IT'S
EASY FOR ME TO SUPPORT THE
CONVERSATION THAT YOU STARTED
FOR US TO GO FROM OUR ONE B TO
OUR ONE D AND I JUST AS A
SIGNAL TO PLANNING STAFF IF
THERE'S A WAY FOR US TO SORT
OF SAY CAN YOU ALL BRING THINGS
THAT OUR TOWNSHIP ISLANDS IN AT
THE HIGHEST RESIDENTIAL DENSITY
THAT MAKES SENSE FOR THAT AS WE
GEAR UP?
I THINK THAT JUST MAKES THE
CONVERSATION A LITTLE BIT
BETTER BECAUSE IT SORT OF PUTS
THE STAFF AGAINST THE COUNCIL
OR AGAINST THE TABLE AND I
DON'T THINK THERE'S THAT MUCH
DISTANCE BECAUSE EVEN MR. KAHN
SAID WHEN WE WHEN WE SAT HERE
HE'S LIKE I'M NOT GOING TO
DEFEND OUR MONEY.
BUT THAT DIDN'T GET INTO ANY
PUBLIC COMMENTS.
IT WAS ALL YOU KNOW, WE WE JUST
DECIDED TO CHANGE IT AT THE
TABLE AND AND HE WAS THE PERSON
HE WAS LIKE I'M ONLY PICKING IT
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT THE
CODE SAYS AND I JUST DON'T
THINK THAT'S A STRONG ENOUGH
ARGUMENT FOR US AS WE'RE SORT
OF TRYING TO IMPROVE WHAT WE'RE
DOING WITH THAT CITY.
SO SO I FULLY SUPPORT WHERE
YOU'RE GOING, COMMISSIONER.
MR. SELBY, I JUST HAD SOME
QUICK MATH BUT IF WE'RE LOOKING
AT FRONTAGE WITH OUR WINDY
WOULD BE FIVE INSTEAD OF SIX
PARCELS COULD BE A LOT SPLIT.
SO THAT IS ACTUALLY MORE THE
LIMITING FACTOR THAN THE FIVE
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT MINIMUM
LOT SIZE IT'S A LOT FRONTAGE
JUST FOR MORE SPATIAL CONTEXT
FOR US.
YEP, I THINK YEAH.
THANK YOU COMMISSIONER SALVAJE
DO I HAVE A FRIENDLY TO AMEND
TO OUR ONE DENHA WELL FIRST FOR
YOU BOTH.
YEAH YEAH.
TO OUR ONE DAY SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER SALVAJE DISCUSSION
ALL IN FAVOR OF EIGHT OH OH SO
THE AMENDMENTS YEAH YEAH YEAH
ALL DAVOR I'LL ADD YOU POST OK
SO NOW WE'RE IN DISCUSSION FOR
OUR ONE D OK AND COMMISSION
RULES THE ONLY REASON THE ONLY
REASON THAT I HAD A SLIGHT
PAUSE IN TERMS OF DIFFERENCES
IS IN PART HOW IT'S CURRENTLY
SERVED BY PUBLIC TRANSIT WHICH
IS WHEN WE WERE THINKING ABOUT
THIS BEFORE I MEAN IT'S RIGHT
ON LIKE RIGHT ON BUS LIKE THIS
IS LESS REMOVED BUT I ALSO
THINK THAT WE NEED TO PLAN FOR
WHAT WE WANT TO SEE IN THE
FUTURE.
THEN THE IDEA THAT THERE WOULD
BE I DON'T KNOW THAT THERE'S
ANY BUS SERVICE HERE ON RIVER
DRIVE RIGHT NOW BUT THE IDEA
THAT WE WOULD WANT MORE
FREQUENT BUS SERVICE ON HERE ON
RIVER DRIVE.
SURE.
SO I I WOULD PUT THAT INTO THE
MIX AS WE'RE LIKE AS WE'RE KIND
OF DEBATING I COLLAPSING
OVERALL THE NUMBER OF DISTRICTS
THAT WE HAVE MAKES A WHOLE LOT
OF SENSE ANYWAY.
BUT YEAH I THINK WE NEED TO
START THE TREND SOMEWHERE ABOUT
LIKE WHAT IS THE APPROPRIATE
ONE ZONE.
SO YEAH.
THANK YOU.
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER IS THE ONLY I'VE I'M NOT
A LAWYER.
WE KNOW THIS ONE.
WE HAVE A STATEMENT OF INTENT
TO SELL THE PARCELS FOR
DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES AND I
KNOW THAT I I DON'T KNOW IF
THAT CREATES A PRESUMPTION THAT
WE ARE ENGAGED IN A FORM
OF ZONING THAT WE SHOULD NOT DO
IN ORDER TO CREATE WEALTH FOR A
DEVELOPER.
THE FACT THAT WE KNOW THAT AS
AN INTENT THAT WAS THAT IS THE
BIGGEST DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THIS
AND THE OTHER ONE.
SO ABSOLUTELY NOT.
I MEAN THERE'S NO THAT INTENT
COULD GO THROUGH THAT THAT
YEAH.
NO NO WORRIES.
OK, COMMISSIONER SELIG, OUR
INTENT IS TO CREATE HOUSING.
THAT'S WHAT THIS DOES I BELIEVE
ANY OTHER DISCUSSION I BELIEVE
WE'RE GOOD FOR A WOLKOFF
COMMISSIONER.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ABRAMS.
COMMISSIONER WHITE YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER SILVER.
COMMISSIONER WHITE YES.
YES.
COMMISSIONER SILVER.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES.
COMMISSIONER DISH YES.
COMMISSIONER CLARKE.
YES.
COMMISSIONER YES.
AND COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
YES.
THAT IS NINE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PASSES.
THANK YOU.
YES.
NOW WE MOVE ON TO SECTION TEN.
ANY OTHER BUSINESS NO NOTICE
OF INTENT TO PLAN OR GO TO
STAFF PRESENTATION OF MR.
KOWALSKI?
WELL, WE DON'T REALLY HAVE A
PRESENTATION TONIGHT.
YOU DON'T READ MY WHOLE INTRO
ALL THIS IS THE REQUIREMENT
THAT I THINK MANY OF YOU HAVE
SEEN BEFORE BASICALLY IN THE
PLANNING ENABLING ACT THAT
REQUIRES US TO DISTRIBUTE THAT
AT THIS POINT, SAID THE NOTICE
A PLAN BASICALLY THAT WE SEND
OUT TO THE ADJACENT COMMUNITIES
AND TELLING THEM THAT WE'RE
STARTING UP A PLAN.
SO REALLY WITH THAT I MEAN WE
HAVE KIND OF EMOTION IN THERE
AND A LITTLE BIT OF BACKGROUND
THERE SO WE CAN ANSWER
QUESTIONS BUT OTHERWISE IT'S
JUST REALLY LOOKING FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION TO APPROVE
THE MOTION SO WE CAN RELEASE
THE DOCUMENTS OR AT LEAST
JOINING PEOPLE KNOW THAT WE'RE
PLANNING.
PERFECT.
THANK YOU, MR. KAWALSKY.
I'LL READ THE PROPOSED MOTION
RESOLVED BY THE CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION THAT A NOTICE
OF INTENT THE PLAN BE SHARED
WITH THE SURROUNDING
COMMUNITIES AND APPLICABLE
AGENCIES AS PRESCRIBED BY THE
MICHIGAN PLANNING ABLE ACT MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER AND SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION SAYING
NONE ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY I TRIED AND
ANY OPPOSED THE MOTION CARRIES
WITH REGARD TO SECTION TEN B
OTHER BUSINESS BYLAWS
DISCUSSION THE AGENDA OK DO YOU
WANT TO GIVE A QUICK
INTRODUCTION HERE WHAT YOU'RE
GOING TO ABOUT?
WE'RE JUST WE'RE RECOMMENDING
IT BE POSTPONED AT THIS TIME
AND AT THE NEXT MEETING THE
CITY ATTORNEY AS WELL AS
PLAYING THAT WILL BE PRESENT TO
GO THROUGH THE REST OF THE
EXPLANATIONS GOT GOCHA SOUNDS
GOOD.
I MOVE THAT THE CONSIDERATION
OF THE PROPOSED BYLAWS
MODIFICATION BE POSTPONED TO
THE OCTOBER 3RD TWENTY TWENTY
THREE PLANNING COMMISSION MOVE
BY COMMISSIONER SALVAJE
SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER MILLS.
ANY DISCUSSION ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOTION PLEASE SAY
I HAD ANY OPPOSED THE MOTION
CARRIES WE'VE GOT A SECTION
ELEVEN PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
PEOPLE TO SPEAK UP TO THREE
MINUTES ABOUT ANY ISSUE THAT'S
NOT LISTED ON THE PUBLIC
HEARING ON THIS AGENDA.
FIRST CALL ON INDIVIDUALS
PRESENT TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION, THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS THE SPEAKER IN
THIS PUBLIC HEARING ROOM ONLY
PLEASE PRESS STAR NINE IF
LISTENING BY PHONE OR USE THE
RIGHT HAND FEATURE IF VIEWING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK FOR PHONE
ACCESS PLEASE ALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO
FORTY SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING
NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE
FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
SELECT CALLERS THAT HAVE RAISED
YOUR HAND USING THE LAST THREE
THE PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME IF
AVAILABLE FOR THOSE ACCESSING
THROUGH THE WEB LINK YOU'LL
HEAR AN AUTOMATED ANNOUNCEMENT
THAT THE HOST IS ALLOWING YOU
TO SPEAK AND ONE SPEAKING
PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET AREA SO
THAT WE MAY HEAR YOU CLEARLY
FOR EITHER METHOD
OF PARTICIPATION.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT THAT
WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS THE
COMMISSION SAYING NO ONE IS
THERE ANYONE THAT WOULD LIKE TO
DRESS THE COMMISSION REMOTELY?
THERE ARE NO COLORS.
OH NO THERE IS A COLOR.
THANK YOU ALEX LOWE.
YOU MAY NOW UNROOT AND ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION FOR
THREE MINUTES.
I GOT THAT.
I'M REALLY DISAPPOINTED THAT WE
ONLY GOT TWENTY.
I'D LIKE TO POINT OUT THAT FROM
THE DOCUMENTS SECTION IT SAYS
THAT I WENT DEEPER THAN I CAN
GET A MAXIMUM OF SIX HOMES ON
THE SPACE TO A COULD GET TO SIX
DUPLEXES OR TWO FORECLOSED
TWELVE MONTHS AND IT SEEMS LIKE
THE ONLY OPPOSITION TO TO THAT
WAS WELL WE HAVEN'T STUDIED THE
UTILITY MR LO WE CAN'T HEAR YOU
MR LO HEY CAN YOU HEAR ME NOW.
YES YES
SORRY THAT'S ALEX LOWE
HERE AGAIN AT 33 FORTY FOUR
FERNWOOD AVENUE A LITTLE BIT
DISAPPOINTED IN THAT LAST PIECE
SPECIFICALLY ABOUT IT BUT
YOU'RE GETTING TO OUR WE'RE
WHICH ALLOWS SIX UNITS IN THAT
AREA OF LAND TO A WOULD HAVE
ALLOWED SIX DUPLEXES.
IT SEEMS THE THE DISCUSSION WAS
PUSHED ASIDE PURELY BECAUSE
THAT HAPPENED BECAUSE OF NOT
HAVING STUDIED THE UTILITY ANY
DIFFERENCE OF OF THOSE
POTENTIAL EXTRA SIX UNITS.
BUT IT'S THIS IS A POTENTIAL
OF SIX EXTRA UNITS.
IT'S NOT LIKE WE'RE ADDING
THIRTY THOUSAND HOUSING UNITS
TO TO WITH BUT WITH THAT WE'RE
ADDING TO THE POTENTIAL OF SIX
MORE HOMES.
THAT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE A HUGE
BURDEN TO ME.
WE SHOULD BE WE SHOULD BE
STUDYING THAT BY DEFAULT, MAYBE
EVEN ALL THE WAY UP TO OUR
AGREEMENT BY DEFAULT SO THAT
THAT NO RATHER THAN HAVING TO
GUESS.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU MR LO.
ANY OTHER CALLERS THERE ARE
NONE SEEING NO OTHER CALLERS
WILL ROUND OUT PUBLIC COMMENT.
WE'RE MOVING TO SECTION TWELVE
COMMISSION PROPOSED BUSINESS OR
ANY COMMISSION PROPOSE BUSINESS
CHOCOLATE IS SOMETHING I HEARD
.
THANK YOU TO MR WE'LL MOVE ON
TO SEEING NO OTHER COMMISSION
PROPOSE BUSINESS ADJOURNMENT
MOVE BY COMMISSIONER SECONDED
BY COUNCIL MEMBER YES ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR SAY I WE ARE ATTORNEYS